The significance of respiration timing in the energetics estimates of free-ranging killer whales (Orcinus orca)
Respiration rate has been used as an indicator of metabolic rate and associated cost of transport (COT) of free-ranging cetaceans, discounting potential respiration-by-respiration variation in O2 uptake. To investigate the influence of respiration timing on O2 uptake, we developed a dynamic model of O2 exchange and storage. Individual respiration events were revealed from kinematic data from 10 adult Norwegian herring-feeding killer whales (Orcinus orca) recorded with high-resolution tags (DTAGs). We compared fixed O2 uptake per respiration models with O2 uptake per respiration estimated through a simple ‘broken-stick’ O2-uptake function, in which O2 uptake was assumed to be the maximum possible O2 uptake when stores are depleted or maximum total body O2 store minus existing O2 store when stores are close to saturated. In contrast to findings assuming fixed O2 uptake per respiration, uptake from the broken-stick model yielded a high correlation (r2>0.9) between O2 uptake and activity level. Moreover, we found that respiration intervals increased and became less variable at higher swimming speeds, possibly to increase O2 uptake efficiency per respiration. As found in previous studies, COT decreased monotonically versus speed using the fixed O2 uptake per respiration models. However, the broken-stick uptake model yielded a curvilinear COT curve with a clear minimum at typical swimming speeds of 1.7–2.4 m s−1. Our results showed that respiration-by-respiration variation in O2 uptake is expected to be significant. And though O2 consumption measurements of COT for free-ranging cetaceans remain impractical, accounting for the influence of respiration timing on O2 uptake will lead to more consistent predictions of field metabolic rates than using respiration rate alone.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/13/2066


Small intestinal hydrolysis of plant glucosides: higher glucohydrolase activities in rodents than passerine birds
Glycosides are a major group of plant secondary compounds characterized by one or more sugars conjugated to a lipophilic, possibly toxic aglycone, which is released upon hydrolysis. We compared small intestinal homogenate hydrolysis activity of three rodent and two avian species against four substrates: amygdalin and sinigrin, two plant-derived glucosides, the sugar lactose, whose hydrolysis models some activity against flavonoid and isoflavonoid glucosides, and the disaccharide sugar maltose (from starch), used as a comparator. Three new findings extend our understanding of physiological processing of plant glucosides: (1) the capacity of passerine birds to hydrolyze plant glucosides seems relatively low, compared with rodents; (2) in this first test of vertebrates' enzymic capacity to hydrolyze glucosinolates, sinigrin hydrolytic capacity seems low; (3) in laboratory mice, hydrolytic activity against lactose resides on the enterocytes' apical membrane facing the intestinal lumen, but activity against amygdalin seems to reside inside enterocytes.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/17/2666


Mitochondrial physiology and reactive oxygen species production are altered by hypoxia acclimation in killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus)
Many fish encounter hypoxia in their native environment, but the role of mitochondrial physiology in hypoxia acclimation and hypoxia tolerance is poorly understood. We investigated the effects of hypoxia acclimation on mitochondrial respiration, O2 kinetics, emission of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and antioxidant capacity in the estuarine killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus). Killifish were acclimated to normoxia, constant hypoxia (5 kPa O2) or intermittent diel cycles of nocturnal hypoxia (12 h:12 h normoxia:hypoxia) for 28–33 days and mitochondria were isolated from liver. Neither pattern of hypoxia acclimation affected the respiratory capacities for oxidative phosphorylation or electron transport, leak respiration, coupling control or phosphorylation efficiency. Hypoxia acclimation also had no effect on mitochondrial O2 kinetics, but P50 (the O2 tension at which hypoxia inhibits respiration by 50%) was lower in the leak state than during maximal respiration, and killifish mitochondria endured anoxia–reoxygenation without any impact on mitochondrial respiration. However, both patterns of hypoxia acclimation reduced the rate of ROS emission from mitochondria when compared at a common O2 tension. Hypoxia acclimation also increased the levels of protein carbonyls and the activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase in liver tissue (the latter only occurred in constant hypoxia). Our results suggest that hypoxia acclimation is associated with changes in mitochondrial physiology that decrease ROS production and may help improve hypoxia tolerance.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/8/1130


Adaptive signatures in thermal performance of the temperate coral Astrangia poculata (Ellis & Solander, 1786)
Variation in environmental characteristics and divergent selection pressures can drive adaptive differentiation across a species’ range. Astrangia poculata is a temperate scleractinian coral that provides unique opportunities to understand the roles of phenotypic plasticity and evolutionary adaptation in coral physiological tolerance limits. A. poculata inhabits hard bottom ecosystems from the northwestern Atlantic to the Gulf of Mexico and withstands an annual temperature range up to 20°C. Additionally, A. poculata is facultatively symbiotic and co-occurs in both symbiotic (“brown”) and aposymbiotic (“white”) states. Here, brown and white A. poculata were collected from Virginia (VA) and Rhode Island (RI), USA and exposed to heat (18-32°C) and cold (18-6°C) temperatures during which respiration (R) of the coral host along with photosynthesis (P) and photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm) of Breviolum psygmophilum photosymbionts were measured. Thermal performance curves (TPCs) of respiration revealed a pattern of countergradient variation with RI corals exhibiting higher respiration rates overall, and specifically at 6, 15, 18, 22, and 26°C. Additionally, thermal optimum (Topt) analyses show a 3.8°C (brown) and 6.9°C (white) higher Topt in the VA population, corresponding to the warmer in situ thermal environment in VA. In contrast to respiration, no origin effect was detected in photosynthesis rates or Fv/Fm, suggesting a possible host-only signature of adaptation. This study is the first to consider A. poculata’s response to both heat and cold stress across symbiotic states and geography and provides insight into the potential evolutionary mechanisms behind the success of this species along the East Coast of the US.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/early/2019/02/02/jeb.189225


Mutualistic damselfish induce higher photosynthetic rates in their host coral
Coral reefs are amongst the most diverse ecosystems on Earth where complex inter-specific interactions are ubiquitous. An example of such interactions is the mutualistic relationship between damselfishes and branching corals in the Northern Red Sea, where the fish use corals as shelter and provide them with nutrients, enhance the flow between their branches, and protect them from predators. By enhancing the flow between the coral branches, the fish ventilate the coral's inner zone, mitigating hypoxic conditions that otherwise develop within that zone during the night. Here, we tested, for the first time, the effects of the damselfish Dascyllus marginatus on photosynthesis and respiration in its host coral Stylophora pistillata. Laboratory experiments using an intermittent-flow respirometer showed that the presence of fish between the coral branches under light conditions augmented the coral's photosynthetic rate. No effect on the coral's respiration was found under dark conditions. When a fish was allowed to enter the inner zone of a dead coral skeleton, its respiration was higher than when it was in a live coral. Field observations indicated that damselfish were present between coral branches 18–34% of the time during daylight hours and at all times during the night. Considering the changes induced by the fish together with the proportion of time they were found between coral branches in the field, the effect of the fish amounted to an augmentation of 3–6% of the coral's daily photosynthesis. Our findings reveal a previously unknown positive contribution of coral-dwelling fish to their host's photosynthesis.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/10/1803


Interspecific variation in brain mitochondrial complex I and II capacity and ROS emission in marine sculpins
Environmental hypoxia presents a metabolic challenge for animals because it inhibits mitochondrial respiration and can lead to the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). We investigated the interplay between O2 use for aerobic respiration and ROS generation among sculpin fishes (Cottidae, Actinopterygii) that are known to vary in whole-animal hypoxia tolerance. We hypothesized that mitochondria from hypoxia-tolerant sculpins would show more efficient O2 use with a higher phosphorylation efficiency and lower ROS emission. We showed that brain mitochondria from more hypoxia-tolerant sculpins had lower complex I and higher complex II flux capacities compared with less hypoxia-tolerant sculpins, but these differences were not related to variation in phosphorylation efficiency (ADP/O) or mitochondrial coupling (respiratory control ratio). The hypoxia-tolerant sculpins had higher mitochondrial H2O2 emission per O2 consumed (H2O2/O2) under oligomycin-induced state 4 conditions compared with less hypoxia-tolerant sculpins. An in vitro redox challenge experiment revealed species differences in how well mitochondria defend their glutathione redox status when challenged with high levels of reduced glutathione, but the redox challenge elicited the same H2O2/O2 in all species. Furthermore, in vitro anoxia recovery lowered absolute H2O2 emission (H2O2 per mg mitochondrial protein) in all species and negatively impacted state 3 respiration rates in some species, but the responses were not related to hypoxia tolerance. Overall, we clearly demonstrate a relationship between hypoxia tolerance and complex I and II flux capacities in sculpins, but the differences in complex flux capacity do not appear to be directly related to variation in ROS metabolism.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/222/2/jeb189407


Cuticular gas exchange by Antarctic sea spiders
Many marine organisms and life stages lack specialized respiratory structures, like gills, and rely instead on cutaneous respiration, which they facilitate by having thin integuments. This respiratory mode may limit body size, especially if the integument also functions in support or locomotion. Pycnogonids, or sea spiders, are marine arthropods that lack gills and rely on cutaneous respiration but still grow to large sizes. Their cuticle contains pores, which may play a role in gas exchange. Here, we examined alternative paths of gas exchange in sea spiders: (1) oxygen diffuses across pores in the cuticle, a common mechanism in terrestrial eggshells, (2) oxygen diffuses directly across the cuticle, a common mechanism in small aquatic insects, or (3) oxygen diffuses across both pores and cuticle. We examined these possibilities by modeling diffusive oxygen fluxes across all pores in the body of sea spiders and asking whether those fluxes differed from measured metabolic rates. We estimated fluxes across pores using Fick's law parameterized with measurements of pore morphology and oxygen gradients. Modeled oxygen fluxes through pores closely matched oxygen consumption across a range of body sizes, which means the pores facilitate oxygen diffusion. Furthermore, pore volume scaled hypermetrically with body size, which helps larger species facilitate greater diffusive oxygen fluxes across their cuticle. This likely presents a functional trade-off between gas exchange and structural support, in which the cuticle must be thick enough to prevent buckling due to external forces but porous enough to allow sufficient gas exchange.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/8/jeb177568


Biomechanics of swimming in developing larval fish
Most larvae of bony fish are able to swim almost immediately after hatching. Their locomotory system supports several vital functions: fish larvae make fast manoeuvres to escape from predators, aim accurately during suction feeding and may migrate towards suitable future habitats. Owing to their small size and low swimming speed, larval fish operate in the intermediate hydrodynamic regime, which connects the viscous and inertial flow regimes. They experience relatively strong viscous effects at low swimming speeds, and relatively strong inertial effects at their highest speeds. As the larvae grow and increase swimming speed, a shift occurs towards the inertial flow regime. To compensate for size-related limitations on swimming speed, fish larvae exploit high tail beat frequencies at their highest speeds, made possible by their low body inertia and fast neuromuscular system. The shifts in flow regime and body inertia lead to changing functional demands on the locomotory system during larval growth. To reach the reproductive adult stage, the developing larvae need to adjust to and perform the functions necessary for survival. Just after hatching, many fish larvae rely on yolk and need to develop their feeding systems before the yolk is exhausted. Furthermore, the larvae need to develop and continuously adjust their sensory, neural and muscular systems to catch prey and avoid predation. This Review discusses the hydrodynamics of swimming in the intermediate flow regime, the changing functional demands on the locomotory system of the growing and developing larval fish, and the solutions that have evolved to accommodate these demands.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/1/jeb149583


Warm preconditioning protects against acute heat-induced respiratory dysfunction and delays bleaching in a symbiotic sea anemone
Preconditioning to non-stressful warming can protect some symbiotic cnidarians against the high temperature-induced collapse of their mutualistic endosymbiosis with photosynthetic dinoflagellates (Symbiodinium spp.), a process known as bleaching. Here, we sought to determine whether such preconditioning is underpinned by differential regulation of aerobic respiration. We quantified in vivo metabolism and mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activity in the naturally symbiotic sea anemone Exaiptasia pallida preconditioned to 30°C for >7 weeks as well as anemones kept at 26°C. Preconditioning resulted in increased Symbiodinium photosynthetic activity and holobiont (host+symbiont) respiration rates. Biomass-normalised activities of host respiratory enzymes [citrate synthase and the mitochondrial electron transport chain (mETC) complexes I and IV] were higher in preconditioned animals, suggesting that increased holobiont respiration may have been due to host mitochondrial biogenesis and/or enlargement. Subsequent acute heating of preconditioned and ‘thermally naive’ animals to 33°C induced dramatic increases in host mETC complex I and Symbiodinium mETC complex II activities only in thermally naive E. pallida. These changes were not reflected in the activities of other respiratory enzymes. Furthermore, bleaching in preconditioned E. pallida (defined as the significant loss of symbionts) was delayed by several days relative to the thermally naive group. These findings suggest that changes to mitochondrial biogenesis and/or function in symbiotic cnidarians during warm preconditioning might play a protective role during periods of exposure to stressful heating.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/6/969


Interactive effects of oxygen, carbon dioxide and flow on photosynthesis and respiration in the scleractinian coral Galaxea fascicularis
Rates of dark respiration and net photosynthesis were measured for six replicate clonal fragments of the stony coral Galaxea fascicularis (Linnaeus 1767), which were incubated under 12 different combinations of dissolved oxygen (20%, 100% and 150% saturation), dissolved carbon dioxide (9.5 and 19.1 µmol l−1) and water flow (1–1.6 versus 4–13 cm s−1) in a repeated measures design. Dark respiration was enhanced by increased flow and increased oxygen saturation in an interactive way, which relates to improved oxygen influx into the coral tissue. Oxygen saturation did not influence net photosynthesis: neither hypoxia nor hyperoxia affected net photosynthesis, irrespective of flow and pH, which suggests that hyperoxia does not induce high rates of photorespiration in this coral. Flow and pH had a synergistic effect on net photosynthesis: at high flow, a decrease in pH stimulated net photosynthesis by 14%. These results indicate that for this individual of G. fascicularis, increased uptake of carbon dioxide rather than increased efflux of oxygen explains the beneficial effect of water flow on photosynthesis. Rates of net photosynthesis measured in this study are among the highest ever recorded for scleractinian corals and confirm a strong scope for growth.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/12/2236


Cardiac mitochondrial metabolism may contribute to differences in thermal tolerance of red- and white-blooded Antarctic notothenioid fishes
Studies in temperate fishes provide evidence that cardiac mitochondrial function and the capacity to fuel cardiac work contribute to thermal tolerance. Here, we tested the hypothesis that decreased cardiac aerobic metabolic capacity contributes to the lower thermal tolerance of the haemoglobinless Antarctic icefish, Chaenocephalus aceratus, compared with that of the red-blooded Antarctic species, Notothenia coriiceps. Maximal activities of citrate synthase (CS) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), respiration rates of isolated mitochondria, adenylate levels and changes in mitochondrial protein expression were quantified from hearts of animals held at ambient temperature or exposed to their critical thermal maximum (CTmax). Compared with C. aceratus, activity of CS, ATP concentration and energy charge were higher in hearts of N. coriiceps at ambient temperature and CTmax. While state 3 mitochondrial respiration rates were not impaired by exposure to CTmax in either species, state 4 rates, indicative of proton leakage, increased following exposure to CTmax in C. aceratus but not N. coriiceps. The interactive effect of temperature and species resulted in an increase in antioxidants and aerobic metabolic enzymes in N. coriiceps but not in C. aceratus. Together, our results support the hypothesis that the lower aerobic metabolic capacity of C. aceratus hearts contributes to its low thermal tolerance.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/15/jeb177816


Metabolite profiling of symbiont and host during thermal stress and bleaching in a model cnidarian–dinoflagellate symbiosis
Bleaching (dinoflagellate symbiont loss) is one of the greatest threats facing coral reefs. The functional cnidarian–dinoflagellate symbiosis, which forms coral reefs, is based on the bi-directional exchange of nutrients. During thermal stress this exchange breaks down; however, major gaps remain in our understanding of the roles of free metabolite pools in symbiosis and homeostasis. In this study we applied gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to explore thermally induced changes in intracellular pools of amino and non-amino organic acids in each partner of the model sea anemone Aiptasia sp. and its dinoflagellate symbiont. Elevated temperatures (32°C for 6 days) resulted in symbiont photoinhibition and bleaching. Thermal stress induced distinct changes in the metabolite profiles of both partners, associated with alterations to central metabolism, oxidative state, cell structure, biosynthesis and signalling. Principally, we detected elevated pools of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in the symbiont, indicative of modifications to lipogenesis/lysis, membrane structure and nitrogen assimilation. In contrast, reductions of multiple PUFAs were detected in host pools, indicative of increased metabolism, peroxidation and/or reduced translocation of these groups. Accumulations of glycolysis intermediates were also observed in both partners, associated with photoinhibition and downstream reductions in carbohydrate metabolism. Correspondingly, we detected accumulations of amino acids and intermediate groups in both partners, with roles in gluconeogenesis and acclimation responses to oxidative stress. These data further our understanding of cellular responses to thermal stress in the symbiosis and generate hypotheses relating to the secondary roles of a number of compounds in homeostasis and heat-stress resistance.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/4/516


Do squid breathe through their skin?
Squid are thought to obtain a large portion of their oxygen via simple diffusion across the skin in addition to uptake at the gills. Although this hypothesis has support from indirect evidence and is widely accepted, no empirical examinations have been conducted to assess the validity of this hypothesis. In this study, we examined cutaneous respiration in two squid species, Doryteuthis pealeii and Lolliguncula brevis, using a divided chamber to physically separate the mantle cavity and gills from the outer mantle surface. We measured oxygen consumption and ammonia excretion rates in the two compartments and found that, at rest, squid only obtain enough oxygen cutaneously to meet the demand of the skin tissue locally (12% of total) and excrete little ammonia across the skin. The majority of oxygen is obtained via the traditional branchial pathway. In light of these findings, we re-examine and discuss the indirect evidence that has supported the cutaneous respiration hypothesis.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/19/jeb185553


Phenotypic flexibility in respiratory traits is associated with improved aerial respiration in an amphibious fish out of water
Amphibious fishes have evolved multiple adaptive strategies for respiring out of water, but there has been less focus on reversible plasticity. We tested the hypothesis that when amphibious fishes leave water, enhanced respiratory performance on land is the result of rapid functional phenotypic flexibility of respiratory traits. We acclimated four isogenic strains of Kryptolebias marmoratus to air for 0, 1, 3 or 7 days. We compared respiratory performance out of water with traits linked to the O2 cascade. Aerial O2 consumption rate was measured over a step-wise decrease in O2 levels. There were significant differences between strains, but time out of water had the largest impact on measured parameters. Kryptolebias marmoratus had improved respiratory performance [lower aerial critical oxygen tension (Pcrit), higher regulation index (RI)] after only 1 day of air exposure, and these changes were strongly associated with the change in hematocrit and dorsal cutaneous angiogenesis. Additionally, we found that 1 h of air exposure induced the expression of four angiogenesis-associated genes – vegfa, angpt2, pecam-1 and efna1 – in the skin. After 7 days in air, respiratory traits were not significantly linked to the variation in either aerial Pcrit or RI. Overall, our data indicate that there are two phases involved in the enhancement of aerial respiration: an initial rapid response (1 day) and a delayed response (7 days). We found evidence for the hypothesis that respiratory performance on land in amphibious fishes is the result of rapid flexibility in both O2 uptake and O2 carrying capacity.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/222/2/jeb186486


Brain mitochondrial bioenergetics change with rapid and prolonged shifts in aggression in the honey bee, Apis mellifera
Neuronal function demands high-level energy production, and as such, a decline in mitochondrial respiration characterizes brain injury and disease. A growing number of studies, however, link brain mitochondrial function to behavioral modulation in non-diseased contexts. In the honey bee, we show for the first time that an acute social interaction, which invokes an aggressive response, may also cause a rapid decline in brain mitochondrial bioenergetics. The degree and speed of this decline has only been previously observed in the context of brain injury. Furthermore, in the honey bee, age-related increases in aggressive tendency are associated with increased baseline brain mitochondrial respiration, as well as increased plasticity in response to metabolic fuel type in vitro. Similarly, diet restriction and ketone body feeding, which commonly enhance mammalian brain mitochondrial function in vivo, cause increased aggression. Thus, even in normal behavioral contexts, brain mitochondria show a surprising degree of variation in function over both rapid and prolonged time scales, with age predicting both baseline function and plasticity in function. These results suggest that mitochondrial function is integral to modulating aggression-related neuronal signaling. We hypothesize that variation in function reflects mitochondrial calcium buffering activity, and that shifts in mitochondrial function signal to the neuronal soma to regulate gene expression and neural energetic state. Modulating brain energetic state is emerging as a critical component of the regulation of behavior in non-diseased contexts.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/8/jeb176917


Invertebrate serotonin receptors: a molecular perspective on classification and pharmacology
Invertebrate receptors for the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) have been identified in numerous species from diverse phyla, including Arthropoda, Mollusca, Nematoda and Platyhelminthes. For many receptors, cloning and characterization in heterologous systems have contributed data on molecular structure and function across both closely and distantly related species. This article provides an overview of heterologously expressed receptors, and considers evolutionary relationships among them, classification based on these relationships and nomenclature that reflects classification. In addition, transduction pathways and pharmacological profiles are compared across receptor subtypes and species. Previous work has shown that transduction mechanisms are well conserved within receptor subtypes, but responses to drugs are complex. A few ligands display specificity for different receptors within a single species; however, none acts with high specificity in receptors across different species. Two non-selective vertebrate ligands, the agonist 5-methoxytryptamine and antagonist methiothepin, are active in most receptor subtypes in multiple species and hence bind very generally to invertebrate 5-HT receptors. Future challenges for the field include determining how pharmacological profiles are affected by differences in species and receptor subtype, and how function in heterologous receptors can be used to better understand 5-HT activity in intact organisms.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/19/jeb184838


Naked mole rat brain mitochondria electron transport system flux and H+ leak are reduced during acute hypoxia
Mitochondrial respiration and ATP production are compromised by hypoxia. Naked mole rats (NMRs) are among the most hypoxia-tolerant mammals and reduce metabolic rate in hypoxic environments; however, little is known regarding mitochondrial function during in vivo hypoxia exposure in this species. To address this knowledge gap, we asked whether the function of NMR brain mitochondria exhibits metabolic plasticity during acute hypoxia. Respirometry was utilized to assess whole-animal oxygen consumption rates and high-resolution respirometry was utilized to assess electron transport system (ETS) function in saponin-permeabilized NMR brain. We found that NMR whole-animal oxygen consumption rate reversibly decreased by ∼85% in acute hypoxia (4 h at 3% O2). Similarly, relative to untreated controls, permeabilized brain respiratory flux through the ETS was decreased by ∼90% in acutely hypoxic animals. Relative to carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoro-methoxyphenylhydrazone-uncoupled total ETS flux, this functional decrease was observed equally across all components of the ETS except for complex IV (cytochrome c oxidase), at which flux was further reduced, supporting a regulatory role for this enzyme during acute hypoxia. The maximum enzymatic capacities of ETS complexes I–V were not altered by acute hypoxia; however, the mitochondrial H+ gradient decreased in step with the decrease in ETS respiration. Taken together, our results indicate that NMR brain ETS flux and H+ leak are reduced in a balanced and regulated fashion during acute hypoxia. Changes in NMR mitochondrial metabolic plasticity mirror whole-animal metabolic responses to hypoxia.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/4/jeb171397


Aquatic surface respiration and swimming behaviour in adult and developing zebrafish exposed to hypoxia
Severe hypoxia elicits aquatic surface respiration (ASR) behaviour in many species of fish, where ventilation of the gills at the air–water interface improves O2 uptake and survival. ASR is an important adaptation that may have given rise to air breathing in vertebrates. The neural substrate of this behaviour, however, is not defined. We characterized ASR in developing and adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) to ascertain a potential role for peripheral chemoreceptors in initiation or modulation of this response. Adult zebrafish exposed to acute, progressive hypoxia (PO2 from 158 to 15 mmHg) performed ASR with a threshold of 30 mmHg, and spent more time at the surface as PO2 decreased. Acclimation to hypoxia attenuated ASR responses. In larvae, ASR behaviour was observed between 5 and 21 days postfertilization with a threshold of 16 mmHg. Zebrafish decreased swimming behaviour (i.e. distance, velocity and acceleration) as PO2 was decreased, with a secondary increase in behaviour near or below threshold PO2. In adults that underwent a 10-day intraperitoneal injection regime of 10 μg g−1 serotonin (5-HT) or 20 μg g−1 acetylcholine (ACh), an acute bout of hypoxia (15 mmHg) increased the time engaged in ASR by 5.5 and 4.9 times, respectively, compared with controls. Larvae previously immersed in 10 μmol l−1 5-HT or ACh also displayed an increased ASR response. Our results support the notion that ASR is a behavioural response that is reliant upon input from peripheral O2 chemoreceptors. We discuss implications for the role of chemoreceptors in the evolution of air breathing.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/11/1777


Development of endothermy and concomitant increases in cardiac and skeletal muscle mitochondrial respiration in the precocial Pekin duck (Anas platyrhynchos domestica)
Attaining endothermic homeothermy occurs at different times post-hatching in birds and is associated with maturation of metabolic and aerobic capacity. Simultaneous measurements at the organism, organ and cellular levels during the transition to endothermy reveal means by which this change in phenotype occurs. We examined development of endothermy in precocial Pekin ducks (Anas platyrhynchos domestica) by measuring whole-animal O2 consumption (V̇O2) as animals cooled from 35 to 15°C. We measured heart ventricle mass, an indicator of O2 delivery capacity, and mitochondrial respiration in permeabilized skeletal and cardiac muscle to elucidate associated changes in mitochondrial capacities at the cellular level. We examined animals on day 24 of incubation through 7 days post-hatching. V̇O2 of embryos decreased when cooling from 35 to 15°C; V̇O2 of hatchlings, beginning on day 0 post-hatching, increased during cooling with a lower critical temperature of 32°C. Yolk-free body mass did not change between internal pipping and hatching, but the heart and thigh skeletal muscle grew at faster rates than the rest of the body as the animals transitioned from an externally pipped paranate to a hatchling. Large changes in oxidative phosphorylation capacity occurred during ontogeny in both thigh muscles, the primary site of shivering, and cardiac ventricles. Thus, increased metabolic capacity necessary to attain endothermy was associated with augmented metabolic capacity of the tissue and augmented increasing O2 delivery capacity, both of which were attained rapidly at hatching.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/8/1214


Exposure to CO2 influences metabolism, calcification and gene expression of the thecosome pteropod Limacina retroversa
Thecosomatous pteropods, a group of aragonite shell-bearing zooplankton, are becoming an important sentinel organism for understanding the influence of ocean acidification on pelagic organisms. These animals show vulnerability to changing carbonate chemistry conditions, are geographically widespread, and are both biogeochemically and trophically important. The objective of this study was to determine how increasing duration and severity of CO2 treatment influence the physiology of the thecosome Limacina retroversa, integrating both gene expression and organism-level (respiration and calcification) metrics. We exposed pteropods to over-saturated, near-saturated or under-saturated conditions and sampled individuals at 1, 3, 7, 14 and 21 days of exposure to test for the effect of duration. We found that calcification was affected by borderline and under-saturated conditions by week two, while respiration appeared to be more strongly influenced by an interaction between severity and duration of exposure, showing complex changes by one week of exposure. The organismal metrics were corroborated by specific gene expression responses, with increased expression of biomineralization-associated genes in the medium and high treatments throughout and complex changes in metabolic genes corresponding to both captivity and CO2 treatment. Genes associated with other physiological processes such as lipid metabolism, neural function and ion pumping had complex responses, influenced by both duration and severity. Beyond these responses, our findings detail the captivity effects for these pelagic organisms, providing information to contextualize the conclusions of previous studies, and emphasizing a need for better culturing protocols.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/3/jeb164400


Co-evolution of proteins and solutions: protein adaptation versus cytoprotective micromolecules and their roles in marine organisms
Organisms experience a wide range of environmental factors such as temperature, salinity and hydrostatic pressure, which pose challenges to biochemical processes. Studies on adaptations to such factors have largely focused on macromolecules, especially intrinsic adaptations in protein structure and function. However, micromolecular cosolutes can act as cytoprotectants in the cellular milieu to affect biochemical function and they are now recognized as important extrinsic adaptations. These solutes, both inorganic and organic, have been best characterized as osmolytes, which accumulate to reduce osmotic water loss. Singly, and in combination, many cosolutes have properties beyond simple osmotic effects, e.g. altering the stability and function of proteins in the face of numerous stressors. A key example is the marine osmolyte trimethylamine oxide (TMAO), which appears to enhance water structure and is excluded from peptide backbones, favoring protein folding and stability and counteracting destabilizers like urea and temperature. Co-evolution of intrinsic and extrinsic adaptations is illustrated with high hydrostatic pressure in deep-living organisms. Cytosolic and membrane proteins and G-protein-coupled signal transduction in fishes under pressure show inhibited function and stability, while revealing a number of intrinsic adaptations in deep species. Yet, intrinsic adaptations are often incomplete, and those fishes accumulate TMAO linearly with depth, suggesting a role for TMAO as an extrinsic ‘piezolyte’ or pressure cosolute. Indeed, TMAO is able to counteract the inhibitory effects of pressure on the stability and function of many proteins. Other cosolutes are cytoprotective in other ways, such as via antioxidation. Such observations highlight the importance of considering the cellular milieu in biochemical and cellular adaptation.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/12/1880


The role of the antioxidant system during intense endurance exercise: lessons from migrating birds
During migration, birds substantially increase their metabolic rate and burn fats as fuel and yet somehow avoid succumbing to overwhelming oxidative damage. The physiological means by which vertebrates such as migrating birds can counteract an increased production of reactive species (RS) are rather limited: they can upregulate their endogenous antioxidant system and/or consume dietary antioxidants (prophylactically or therapeutically). Thus, birds can alter different components of their antioxidant system to respond to the demands of long-duration flights, but much remains to be discovered about the complexities of RS production and antioxidant protection throughout migration. Here, we use bird migration as an example to discuss how RS are produced during endurance exercise and how the complex antioxidant system can protect against cellular damage caused by RS. Understanding how a bird's antioxidant system responds during migration can lend insights into how antioxidants protect birds during other life-history stages when metabolic rate may be high, and how antioxidants protect other vertebrates from oxidative damage during endurance exercise.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/23/3684


Conversion efficiency of α-linolenic acid to omega-3 highly unsaturated fatty acids in aerial insectivore chicks
Food availability and quality are both critical for growing young animals. In nature, swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) and other aerial insectivores feed on both aquatic insects, which are rich in omega-3 highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFAs), and terrestrial insects, which contain considerably lower amounts of omega-3 HUFAs. Carnivorous mammals and fishes must obtain omega-3 HUFAs from their diet, as they have lost the capacity to convert the precursor omega-3 α-linolenic acid (ALA) into omega-3 HUFAs. Thus, the relative value of aquatic versus terrestrial insects depends not only on the fatty acid composition of the prey but also on the capacity of consumers to convert ALA into omega-3 HUFAs. We used a combination of stable-isotope-labeled fatty acid tracers to ask whether, and how efficiently, tree swallows can deposit newly synthesized omega-3 HUFAs into tissue. Our data show for the first time that tree swallows can convert ALA into omega-3 HUFAs deposited in liver and skeletal muscle. However, high tree swallow demand for omega-3 HUFAs combined with low ALA availability in natural terrestrial foods may strain their modest conversion ability. This suggests that while tree swallows can synthesize omega-3 HUFAs de novo, omega-3 HUFAs are ecologically essential nutrients in natural systems. Our findings thus provide mechanistic support for our previous findings and the importance of omega-3 HUFA-rich aquatic insects for tree swallows and most likely other aerial insectivores with similar niches.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/3/jeb165373


Function and evolution of specialized endogenous lipids in toothed whales
The Odontocetes (toothed whales) possess two types of specialized fat and, therefore, represent an interesting group when considering the evolution and function of adipose tissue. All whales have a layer of superficial blubber, which insulates and streamlines, provides buoyancy and acts as an energy reserve. Some toothed whales deposit large amounts of wax esters, rather than triacylglycerols, in blubber, which is unusual. Waxes have very different physical and physiological properties, which may impact blubber function. The cranial acoustic fat depots serve to focus sound during echolocation and hearing. The acoustic fats have unique morphologies; however, they are even more specialized biochemically because they are composed of a mix of endogenous waxes and triacylglycerols with unusual branched elements (derived from amino acids) that are not present in other mammals. Both waxes and branched elements alter how sound travels through a fat body; they are arranged in a 3D topographical pattern to focus sound. Furthermore, the specific branched-chain acid/alcohol synthesis mechanisms and products vary phylogenetically (e.g. dolphins synthesize lipids from leucine whereas beaked whales use valine). I propose that these specialized lipids evolved first in the head: wax synthesis first emerged to serve an acoustic function in toothed whales, with branched-chain synthesis adding additional acoustic focusing power, and some species secondarily retained wax synthesis pathways for blubber. Further research is necessary to elucidate specific molecular mechanisms controlling the synthesis and deposition of wax esters and branched-chain fatty acids, as well as their spatial deposition within tissues and within adipocytes.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/Suppl_1/jeb161471


ArHsp40 and ArHsp40-2 contribute to stress tolerance and longevity in Artemia franciscana, but only ArHsp40 influences diapause entry
Embryos of the crustacean Artemia franciscana develop either ovoviviparously or oviparously, yielding swimming larvae (nauplii) or encysted gastrulae (cysts), respectively. Nauplii moult several times and become adults whereas cysts enter diapause, a state of dormancy characterized by exceptionally low metabolism and high stress tolerance. Synthesis of molecular chaperones such as the J-domain proteins ArHsp40 and ArHsp40-2 occurs during embryo development and post-diapause growth of A. franciscana and they influence development and stress tolerance. To further investigate J-domain protein function, ArHsp40 and ArHsp40-2 were each knocked down by RNA interference. Reductions in ArHsp40 and ArHsp40-2 had no effect on adult survival, time to release of cysts and nauplii from females and first-brood size. However, knockdown of both A. franciscana J-domain proteins reduced the longevity and heat tolerance of nauplii, with the loss of ArHsp40 having a greater effect. The knockdown of ArHsp40, but not of ArHsp40-2, caused approximately 50% of cysts to abort diapause entry and hatch without exposure to an exogenous signal such as low temperature and/or desiccation. Cysts lacking ArHsp40 that entered diapause exhibited decreased stress tolerance as did cysts with reduced ArHsp40-2, the latter to a lesser degree. The longevity of nauplii hatching prematurely from cysts was less than for nauplii arising by other means. The results expand our understanding of Hsp40 function in A. franciscana stress tolerance and development, especially during diapause, and they provide the first example of a molecular chaperone that influences diapause entry.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/20/jeb189001


Olfactory navigation in aquatic gastropods
Gastropod diversity is substantial in marine and freshwater habitats, and many aquatic slugs and snails use olfactory cues to guide their navigation behaviour. Examples include finding prey or avoiding predators based on kairomones, or finding potential mates using pheromones. Here, I review the diversity of navigational behaviours studied across the major aquatic taxa of gastropods. I then synthesize evidence for the different theoretical navigation strategies the animals may use. It is likely that gastropods regularly use either chemotaxis or odour-gated rheotaxis (or both) during olfactory-based navigation. Finally, I collate the patchwork of research conducted on relevant proximate mechanisms that could produce navigation behaviours. Although the tractability of several gastropod species for neurophysiological experimentation has generated some valuable insight into how turning behaviour is triggered by contact chemoreception, there remain many substantial gaps in our understanding for how navigation relative to more distant odour sources is controlled in gastropods. These gaps include little information on the chemoreceptors and mechanoreceptors (for detecting flow) found in the peripheral nervous system and the central (or peripheral) processing circuits that integrate that sensory input. In contrast, past studies do provide information on motor neurons that control the effectors that produce crawling (both forward locomotion and turning). Thus, there is plenty of scope for further research on olfactory-based navigation, exploiting the tractability of gastropods for neuroethology to better understand how the nervous system processes chemosensory input to generate movement towards or away from distant odour sources.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/222/Suppl_1/jeb185843


Non-Euclidean navigation
A basic set of navigation strategies supports navigational tasks ranging from homing to novel detours and shortcuts. To perform these last two tasks, it is generally thought that humans, mammals and perhaps some insects possess Euclidean cognitive maps, constructed on the basis of input from the path integration system. In this article, I review the rationale and behavioral evidence for this metric cognitive map hypothesis, and find it unpersuasive: in practice, there is little evidence for truly novel shortcuts in animals, and human performance is highly unreliable and biased by environmental features. I develop the alternative hypothesis that spatial knowledge is better characterized as a labeled graph: a network of paths between places augmented with local metric information. What distinguishes such a cognitive graph from a metric cognitive map is that this local information is not embedded in a global coordinate system, so spatial knowledge is often geometrically inconsistent. Human path integration appears to be better suited to piecewise measurements of path lengths and turn angles than to building a consistent map. In a series of experiments in immersive virtual reality, we tested human navigation in non-Euclidean environments and found that shortcuts manifest large violations of the metric postulates. The results are contrary to the Euclidean map hypothesis and support the cognitive graph hypothesis. Apparently Euclidean behavior, such as taking novel detours and approximate shortcuts, can be explained by the adaptive use of non-Euclidean strategies.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/222/Suppl_1/jeb187971


Encoding phase spectrum for evaluating “electric qualia”
The most broadly expressed and studied aspect of sensory transduction is receptor tuning to the power spectral density of the incoming signals. Temporal clues expressed in the phase spectrum are relevant in African and American pulse emitting electric fish showing electroreceptors sensing the signals carried by the self- and conspecific-generated electric organ discharges. This article deals with the role of electroreceptor phase sensitivity in American pulse Gymnotiformes. These fish show electroreceptors sharply tuned to narrow frequencies bands. This led to the common thought that most electrosensory information is contained in the amplitude spectra of the signals. However, behavioral and modeling studies suggest that in pulse Gymnotiformes electroreceptors also encode clues embodied in the phase spectrum of natural stimuli. Here we show that the two main types of tuberous primary afferents of Gymnotus omarorum differentially respond to clues embodied in the amplitude and phase spectra of self-generated electrosensory signals. One afferent type, pulse markers, is mainly driven by the amplitude spectrum while the other, burst coders, is predominantly sensitive to the phase spectrum. This dual encoding strategy allows the fish to create a sensory manifold where patterns of “electric color” generated by objects impedance and other potential sources of “colored” images (as large nearby objects and other electric fish) can be represented.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/early/2019/01/17/jeb.191544


Non-adrenergic control of lipolysis and thermogenesis in adipose tissues
The enormous plasticity of adipose tissues, to rapidly adapt to altered physiological states of energy demand, is under neuronal and endocrine control. In energy balance, lipolysis of triacylglycerols and re-esterification of free fatty acids are opposing processes operating in parallel at identical rates, thus allowing a more dynamic transition from anabolism to catabolism, and vice versa. In response to alterations in the state of energy balance, one of the two processes predominates, enabling the efficient mobilization or storage of energy in a negative or positive energy balance, respectively. The release of noradrenaline from the sympathetic nervous system activates lipolysis in a depot-specific manner by initiating the canonical adrenergic receptor–Gs-protein–adenylyl cyclase–cyclic adenosine monophosphate–protein kinase A pathway, targeting proteins of the lipolytic machinery associated with the interface of the lipid droplets. In brown and brite adipocytes, lipolysis stimulated by this signaling pathway is a prerequisite for the activation of non-shivering thermogenesis. Free fatty acids released by lipolysis are direct activators of uncoupling protein 1-mediated leak respiration. Thus, pro- and anti-lipolytic mediators are bona fide modulators of thermogenesis in brown and brite adipocytes. In this Review, we discuss adrenergic and non-adrenergic mechanisms controlling lipolysis and thermogenesis and provide a comprehensive overview of pro- and anti-lipolytic mediators.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/Suppl_1/jeb165381


Using cross-disciplinary knowledge to facilitate advancements in animal communication and science communication research
Although humans may have more nuanced reasons for communicating – e.g. to teach or inform, to share or change opinions or attitudes – all animals engage in communication with members of their own as well as other species, and there are more similarities than differences between non-human and human communication. All communication systems are composed of the same basic elements and all face comparable challenges. In this Commentary, we explore the extent to which research investigating how non-human animals communicate with each other (animal communication) overlaps in questions and approaches with research focused on how humans communicate with each other. We place a special focus on human communication involving scientific content, i.e. science communication. We begin with a brief review of the fields of animal communication and science communication. We next synthesize literature from each field to examine the roles, impacts and potential interactions of communication system elements – signaling environments, signalers, signal form and receivers – on effective communication. We find that research examining animal and human communication, including science communication, often has different emphases. Animal communication research, for example, tends to focus more on the role of the signaling environment through quantification of receiver responses. In contrast, science communication research currently emphasizes relationship building between signalers and receivers, and quantifies aspects of the receiver's psychology. Informed by our cross-disciplinary assessment, we propose potentially productive avenues of future research in both animal communication and science communication.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/18/jeb179978


Drosophila as a model to study obesity and metabolic disease
Excess adipose fat accumulation, or obesity, is a growing problem worldwide in terms of both the rate of incidence and the severity of obesity-associated metabolic disease. Adipose tissue evolved in animals as a specialized dynamic lipid storage depot: adipose cells synthesize fat (a process called lipogenesis) when energy is plentiful and mobilize stored fat (a process called lipolysis) when energy is needed. When a disruption of lipid homeostasis favors increased fat synthesis and storage with little turnover owing to genetic predisposition, overnutrition or sedentary living, complications such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease are more likely to arise. The vinegar fly Drosophila melanogaster (Diptera: Drosophilidae) is used as a model to better understand the mechanisms governing fat metabolism and distribution. Flies offer a wealth of paradigms with which to study the regulation and physiological effects of fat accumulation. Obese flies accumulate triacylglycerols in the fat body, an organ similar to mammalian adipose tissue, which specializes in lipid storage and catabolism. Discoveries in Drosophila have ranged from endocrine hormones that control obesity to subcellular mechanisms that regulate lipogenesis and lipolysis, many of which are evolutionarily conserved. Furthermore, obese flies exhibit pathophysiological complications, including hyperglycemia, reduced longevity and cardiovascular function – similar to those observed in obese humans. Here, we review some of the salient features of the fly that enable researchers to study the contributions of feeding, absorption, distribution and the metabolism of lipids to systemic physiology.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/Suppl_1/jeb163881


Glucose metabolism ontogenesis in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) in the light of the recently sequenced genome: new tools for intermediary metabolism programming
The rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), a carnivorous fish species, displays a ‘glucose-intolerant’ phenotype when fed a high-carbohydrate diet. The importance of carbohydrate metabolism during embryogenesis and the timing of establishing this later phenotype are currently unclear. In addition, the mechanisms underlying the poor ability of carnivorous fish to use dietary carbohydrates as a major energy substrate are not well understood. It has recently been shown in trout that duplicated genes involved in glucose metabolism may participate in establishing the glucose-intolerant phenotype. The aim of this study was therefore to provide new understanding of glucose metabolism during ontogenesis and nutritional transition, taking into consideration the complexity of the trout genome. Trout were sampled at several stages of development from fertilization to hatching, and alevins were then fed a non-carbohydrate or a high-carbohydrate diet during first feeding. mRNA levels of all glucose metabolism-related genes increased in embryos during the setting up of the primitive liver. After the first meal, genes rapidly displayed expression patterns equivalent to those observed in the livers of juveniles. g6pcb2.a (a glucose 6-phosphatase-encoding gene) was up-regulated in alevins fed a high-carbohydrate diet, mimicking the expression pattern of gck genes. The g6pcb2.a gene may contribute to the non-inhibition of the last step of gluconeogenesis and thus to establishing the glucose-intolerant phenotype in trout fed a high-carbohydrate diet as early as first feeding. This information is crucial for nutritional programming investigations as it suggests that first feeding would be too late to programme glucose metabolism in the long term.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/5/734


Hormonal and metabolic responses to upper temperature extremes in divergent life-history ecotypes of a garter snake
Extreme temperatures constrain organismal physiology and impose both acute and chronic effects. Additionally, temperature-induced hormone-mediated stress response pathways and energetic trade-offs are important drivers of life-history variation. This study employs an integrative approach to quantify acute physiological responses to high temperatures in divergent life-history ecotypes of the western terrestrial garter snake (Thamnophis elegans). Using wild-caught animals, we measured oxygen consumption rate and physiological markers of hormonal stress response, energy availability and anaerobic respiration in blood plasma across five ecologically relevant temperatures (24, 28, 32, 35 and 38°C; 3 h exposure). Corticosterone, insulin and glucose concentrations all increased with temperature, but with different thermal response curves, suggesting that high temperatures differently affect energy-regulation pathways. Additionally, oxygen consumption rate increased without plateau and lactate concentration did not increase with temperature, challenging the recent hypothesis that oxygen limitation sets upper thermal tolerance limits. Finally, animals had similar physiological thermal responses to high-temperature exposure regardless of genetic background, suggesting that local adaptation has not resulted in fixed differences between ecotypes. Together, these results identify some of the mechanisms by which higher temperatures alter hormonal-mediated energy balance in reptiles and potential limits to the flexibility of this response.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/18/2944


Physiological strategies during animal diapause: lessons from brine shrimp and annual killifish
Diapause is a programmed state of developmental arrest that typically occurs as part of the natural developmental progression of organisms that inhabit seasonal environments. The brine shrimp Artemia franciscana and annual killifish Austrofundulus limnaeus share strikingly similar life histories that include embryonic diapause as a means to synchronize the growth and reproduction phases of their life history to favorable environmental conditions. In both species, respiration rate is severely depressed during diapause and thus alterations in mitochondrial physiology are a key component of the suite of characters associated with cessation of development. Here, we use these two species to illustrate the basic principles of metabolic depression at the physiological and biochemical levels. It is clear that these two species use divergent molecular mechanisms to achieve the same physiological and ecological outcomes. This pattern of convergent physiological strategies supports the importance of biochemical and physiological adaptations to cope with extreme environmental stress and suggests that inferring mechanism from transcriptomics or proteomics or metabolomics alone, without rigorous follow-up at the biochemical and physiological levels, could lead to erroneous conclusions.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/12/1897


Metabolic fuel kinetics in fish: swimming, hypoxia and muscle membranes
Muscle performance depends on the supply of metabolic fuels and disposal of end-products. Using circulating metabolite concentrations to infer changes in fluxes is highly unreliable because the relationship between these parameters varies greatly with physiological state. Quantifying fuel kinetics directly is therefore crucial to the understanding of muscle metabolism. This review focuses on how carbohydrates, lipids and amino acids are provided to fish muscles during hypoxia and swimming. Both stresses force white muscle to produce lactate at higher rates than it can be processed by aerobic tissues. However, lactate accumulation is minimized because disposal is also strongly stimulated. Exogenous supply shows that trout have a much higher capacity to metabolize lactate than observed during hypoxia or intense swimming. The low density of monocarboxylate transporters and their lack of upregulation with exercise explain the phenomenon of white muscle lactate retention. This tissue operates as a quasi-closed system, where glycogen stores act as an ‘energy spring’ that alternates between explosive power release during swimming and slow recoil from lactate in situ during recovery. To cope with exogenous glucose, trout can completely suppress hepatic production and boost glucose disposal. Without these responses, glycemia would increase four times faster and reach dangerous levels. The capacity of salmonids for glucoregulation is therefore much better than presently described in the literature. Instead of albumin-bound fatty acids, fish use lipoproteins to shuttle energy from adipose tissue to working muscles during prolonged exercise. Proteins may play an important role in fueling muscle work in fish, but their exact contribution is yet to be established. The membrane pacemaker theory of metabolism accurately predicts general properties of muscle membranes such as unsaturation, but it does not explain allometric patterns of specific fatty acids. Investigations of metabolic fuel kinetics carried out in fish to date have demonstrated that these ectotherms use several unique strategies to orchestrate energy supply to working muscles and to survive hypoxia.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/2/250


Calorespirometry reveals that goldfish prioritize aerobic metabolism over metabolic rate depression in all but near-anoxic environments
Metabolic rate depression (MRD) has long been proposed as the key metabolic strategy of hypoxic survival, but surprisingly, the effects of changes in hypoxic O2 tensions (PwO2) on MRD are largely unexplored. We simultaneously measured the O2 consumption rate (ṀO2) and metabolic heat of goldfish using calorespirometry to test the hypothesis that MRD is employed at hypoxic PwO2 values and initiated just below Pcrit, the PwO2 below which ṀO2 is forced to progressively decline as the fish oxyconforms to decreasing PwO2. Specifically, we used closed-chamber and flow-through calorespirometry together with terminal sampling experiments to examine the effects of PwO2 and time on ṀO2, metabolic heat and anaerobic metabolism (lactate and ethanol production). The closed-chamber and flow-through experiments yielded slightly different results. Under closed-chamber conditions with a continually decreasing PwO2, goldfish showed a Pcrit of 3.0±0.3 kPa and metabolic heat production was only depressed at PwO2 between 0 and 0.67 kPa. Under flow-through conditions with PwO2 held at a variety of oxygen tensions for 1 and 4 h, goldfish also initiated MRD between 0 and 0.67 kPa but maintained ṀO2 to 0.67 kPa, indicating that Pcrit is at or below this PwO2. Anaerobic metabolism was strongly activated at PwO2 ≤1.3 kPa, but only used within the first hour at 1.3 and 0.67 kPa, as anaerobic end-products did not accumulate between 1 and 4 h exposure. Taken together, it appears that goldfish reserve MRD for near-anoxia, supporting routine metabolic rate at sub-Pcrit PwO2 values with the help of anaerobic glycolysis in the closed-chamber experiments, and aerobically after an initial (<1 h) activation of anaerobic metabolism in the flow-through experiments, even at 0.67 kPa PwO2.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/4/564


Extreme physiological plasticity in a hibernating basoendothermic mammal, Tenrec ecaudatus
Physiological plasticity allows organisms to respond to diverse conditions. However, can being too plastic actually be detrimental? Malagasy common tenrecs, Tenrec ecaudatus, have many plesiomorphic traits and may represent a basal placental mammal. We established a laboratory population of T. ecaudatus and found extreme plasticity in thermoregulation and metabolism, a novel hibernation form, variable annual timing, and remarkable growth and reproductive biology. For instance, tenrec body temperature (Tb) may approximate ambient temperature to as low as 12°C even when tenrecs are fully active. Conversely, tenrecs can hibernate with Tb of 28°C. During the active season, oxygen consumption may vary 25-fold with little or no change in Tb. During the austral winter, tenrecs are consistently torpid but the depth of torpor may vary. A righting assay revealed that Tb contributes to but does not dictate activity status. Homeostatic processes are not always linked, e.g. a hibernating tenrec experienced a ∼34% decrease in heart rate while maintaining constant body temperature and oxygen consumption rates. Tenrec growth rates vary but young may grow ∼40-fold in the 5 weeks until weaning and may possess indeterminate growth as adults. Despite all of this profound plasticity, tenrecs are surprisingly intolerant of extremes in ambient temperature (<8 or >34°C). We contend that while plasticity may confer numerous energetic advantages in consistently moderate environments, environmental extremes may have limited the success and distribution of plastic basal mammals.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/20/jeb185900


Developmental changes in head movement kinematics during swimming in Xenopus laevis tadpoles
During the post-embryonic developmental growth of animals, a number of physiological parameters such as locomotor performance, dynamics and behavioural repertoire are adjusted to match the requirements determined by changes in body size, proportions and shape. Moreover, changes in movement parameters also cause changes in the dynamics of self-generated sensory stimuli, to which motion-detecting sensory systems have to adapt. Here, we examined head movements and swimming kinematics of Xenopus laevis tadpoles with a body length of 10–45 mm (developmental stage 46–54) and compared these parameters with fictive swimming, recorded as ventral root activity in semi-intact in vitro preparations. Head movement kinematics was extracted from high-speed video recordings of freely swimming tadpoles. Analysis of these locomotor episodes indicated that the swimming frequency decreased with development, along with the angular velocity and acceleration of the head, which represent self-generated vestibular stimuli. In contrast, neither head oscillation amplitude nor forward velocity changed with development despite the ∼3-fold increase in body size. The comparison between free and fictive locomotor dynamics revealed very similar swimming frequencies for similarly sized animals, including a comparable developmental decrease of the swimming frequency. Body morphology and the motor output rhythm of the spinal central pattern generator therefore develop concurrently. This study thus describes development-specific naturalistic head motion profiles, which form the basis for more natural stimuli in future studies probing the vestibular system.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/2/227


How the simple shape and soft body of the larvae might explain the success of endopterygote insects
The body forms of the larvae of most endopterygote insects are remarkably similar. I argue that their typical worm-like shape cuts costs; in particular, this allows the larvae to benefit from cheaper moulting and from less costly provision of fuel and oxygen to their respiring tissues. Furthermore, the shape confers a reduction of larval mortality in moulting. Together, these factors allow endopterygote larvae to grow fast and as this speedy growth reduces the dangers of predation, attack by parasitoids and disease before the larvae can reach adulthood, they increase offspring survival. I argue that this goes a long way to explain the very pronounced success of endopterygote insects.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/11/jeb177535


Effects of organism and substrate size on burial mechanics of English sole, Parophrys vetulus
Flatfishes use cyclic body undulations to force water into the sediment and fluidize substrate particles, displacing them into the water column. When water velocity decreases, suspended particles settle back onto the fish, hiding it from view. Burial may become more challenging as flatfishes grow because the area to be covered increases exponentially with the second power of length. In addition, particle size is not uniform in naturally occurring substrates, and larger particles require higher water velocities for fluidization. We quantified the effects of organism and particle-size scaling on burial behavior of English sole, Parophrys vetulus. We recorded burial events from a size range of individuals (5–32 cm total length, TL), while maintaining constant substrate grain size. Larger fish used lower cycle frequencies and took longer to bury, but overall burial performance was maintained (∼100% coverage). To test the effect of particle size on burial performance, individuals of similar lengths (5.7–8.1 cm TL) were presented with different substrate sizes (0.125–0.710 mm). Particle size did not affect cycle frequency or time to burial, but fish did not achieve 100% coverage with the largest particles because they could not fluidize this substrate. Taken together, these results suggest that both body size and substrate grain size can potentially limit the ability of flatfishes to bury: a very large fish (>150 cm) may move too slowly to fluidize all but the smallest substrate particles and some particles are simply too large for smaller individuals to fluidize.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/18/jeb176131


Alanine, proline and urea are major organic osmolytes in the snail Theodoxus fluviatilis under hyperosmotic stress
Hyperosmotic stress may result in osmotic volume loss from the body to the environment in animals that cannot control the water permeability of their integument. Euryhaline animals (which have a wide tolerance range of environmental salinities) have generally evolved the ability to counteract cell volume shrinkage by accumulating inorganic and organic osmolytes within their cells to balance internal and external osmolalities. Molluscs use very different combinations of amino acids and amino acid derivatives to achieve this goal. Theodoxus fluviatilis is a neritid gastropod that is distributed not only in limnic habitats in Europe but also in brackish waters (e.g. along the shoreline of the Baltic Sea). Animals from brackish sites survive better in high salinities than animals from freshwater locations. The results of the present study indicate that these differences in salinity tolerance cannot be explained by differences in the general ability to accumulate amino acids as organic osmolytes. Although there may be differences in the metabolic pathways involved in osmolyte accumulation in foot muscle tissue, the two groups of animals accumulate amino acid mixtures equally well when stepwise acclimated to their respective maximum tolerable salinity for extended periods. Among these amino acids, alanine and proline, as well as the osmolyte urea, hold a special importance for cell volume preservation in T. fluviatilis under hyperosmotic stress. It is possible that the accumulation of various amino acids during hyperosmotic stress occurs via hydrolysis of storage proteins, while alanine and proline are probably newly synthesised under conditions of hyperosmotic stress in the animals.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/222/3/jeb193557


Fasting enhances mitochondrial efficiency in duckling skeletal muscle by acting on the substrate oxidation system
During food deprivation, animals must develop physiological responses to maximize energy conservation and survival. At the subcellular level, energy conservation is mainly achieved by a reduction in mitochondrial activity and an upregulation of oxidative phosphorylation efficiency. The aim of this study was to decipher mechanisms underlying the increased mitochondrial coupling efficiency reported in fasted birds. Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation activity, efficiency and membrane potential were measured in mitochondria isolated from the gastrocnemius muscle of ducklings. The content and activities of respiratory chain complexes were also determined. Results from ducklings fasted for 6 days were compared with ducklings fed ad libitum. Here, we report that 6 days of fasting improved coupling efficiency in muscle mitochondria of ducklings by depressing proton-motive force through the downregulation of substrate oxidation reactions. Fasting did not change the basal proton conductance of mitochondria but largely decreased the oxidative phosphorylation activity, which was associated with decreased activities of succinate–cytochrome c reductase (complexes II–III) and citrate synthase, and altered contents in cytochromes b and c+c1. In contrast, fasting did not change cytochrome aa3 content or the activity of complexes I, II and IV. Altogether, these data show that the lower capacity of the respiratory machinery to pump protons in ducklings fasted for 6 days generates a lower membrane potential, which triggers a decreased proton leak activity and thus a higher coupling efficiency. We propose that the main site of action would be located at the level of co-enzyme Q pool/complex III of the electron transport chain.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/4/jeb172213


Differences in molecular mechanisms of K+ clearance in the auditory sensory epithelium of birds and mammals
Mechanoelectrical transduction in the vertebrate inner ear is a highly conserved mechanism that is dependent on K+ influx into hair cells. Here, we investigated the molecular underpinnings of subsequent K+ recycling in the chicken basilar papilla and compared them with those in the mammalian auditory sensory epithelium. As in mammals, the avian auditory hair cell uses KCNQ4, KCNMA1 and KCNMB1 in its K+ efflux system. Expression of KCNQ1 and KCNE1 suggests an additional efflux apparatus in avian hair cells. Marked differences were observed for K+ clearance. In mammals, KCC3, KCC4, Kir4.1 and CLC-K are present in supporting cells. Of these, only CLC-K is expressed in avian supporting cells. Instead, they possess NKCC1 to move K+ across the membrane. This expression pattern suggests an avian clearance mechanism reminiscent of the well-established K+ uptake apparatus present in inner ear secretory cells. Altogether, tetrapod hair cells show similar mechanisms and supporting cells show distinct molecular underpinnings of K+ recycling.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/15/2701


Feast or flee: bioelectrical regulation of feeding and predator evasion behaviors in the planktonic alveolate Favella sp. (Spirotrichia)
Alveolate (ciliates and dinoflagellates) grazers are integral components of the marine food web and must therefore be able to sense a range of mechanical and chemical signals produced by prey and predators, integrating them via signal transduction mechanisms to respond with effective prey capture and predator evasion behaviors. However, the sensory biology of alveolate grazers is poorly understood. Using novel techniques that combine electrophysiological measurements and high-speed videomicroscopy, we investigated the sensory biology of Favella sp., a model alveolate grazer, in the context of its trophic ecology. Favella sp. produced frequent rhythmic depolarizations (∼500 ms long) that caused backward swimming and are responsible for endogenous swimming patterns relevant to foraging. Contact of both prey cells and non-prey polystyrene microspheres at the cilia produced immediate mechanostimulated depolarizations (∼500 ms long) that caused backward swimming, and likely underlie aggregative swimming patterns of Favella sp. in response to patches of prey. Contact of particles at the peristomal cavity that were not suitable for ingestion resulted in depolarizations after a lag of ∼600 ms, allowing time for particles to be processed before rejection. Ingestion of preferred prey particles was accompanied by transient hyperpolarizations (∼1 s) that likely regulate this step of the feeding process. Predation attempts by the copepod Acartia tonsa elicited fast (∼20 ms) animal-like action potentials accompanied by rapid contraction of the cell to avoid predation. We have shown that the sensory mechanisms of Favella sp. are finely tuned to the type, location, and intensity of stimuli from prey and predators.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/3/445


Hearing of the African lungfish (Protopterus annectens) suggests underwater pressure detection and rudimentary aerial hearing in early tetrapods
In the transition from an aquatic to a terrestrial lifestyle, vertebrate auditory systems have undergone major changes while adapting to aerial hearing. Lungfish are the closest living relatives of tetrapods and their auditory system may therefore be a suitable model of the auditory systems of early tetrapods such as Acanthostega. Therefore, experimental studies on the hearing capabilities of lungfish may shed light on the possible hearing capabilities of early tetrapods and broaden our understanding of hearing across the water-to-land transition. Here, we tested the hypotheses that (i) lungfish are sensitive to underwater pressure using their lungs as pressure-to-particle motion transducers and (ii) lungfish can detect airborne sound. To do so, we used neurophysiological recordings to estimate the vibration and pressure sensitivity of African lungfish (Protopterus annectens) in both water and air. We show that lungfish detect underwater sound pressure via pressure-to-particle motion transduction by air volumes in their lungs. The morphology of lungfish shows no specialized connection between these air volumes and the inner ears, and so our results imply that air breathing may have enabled rudimentary pressure detection as early as the Devonian era. Additionally, we demonstrate that lungfish in spite of their atympanic middle ear can detect airborne sound through detection of sound-induced head vibrations. This strongly suggests that even vertebrates with no middle ear adaptations for aerial hearing, such as the first tetrapods, had rudimentary aerial hearing that may have led to the evolution of tympanic middle ears in recent tetrapods.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/3/381


Intracellular regulation of the insect chemoreceptor complex impacts odour localization in flying insects
Flying insects are well known for airborne odour tracking and have evolved diverse chemoreceptors. While ionotropic receptors (IRs) are found across protostomes, insect odorant receptors (ORs) have only been identified in winged insects. We therefore hypothesized that the unique signal transduction of ORs offers an advantage for odour localization in flight. Using Drosophila, we found expression and increased activity of the intracellular signalling protein PKC in antennal sensilla following odour stimulation. Odour stimulation also enhanced phosphorylation of the OR co-receptor Orco in vitro, while site-directed mutation of Orco or mutations in PKC subtypes reduced the sensitivity and dynamic range of OR-expressing neurons in vivo, but not IR-expressing neurons. We ultimately show that these mutations reduce competence for odour localization of flies in flight. We conclude that intracellular regulation of OR sensitivity is necessary for efficient odour localization, which suggests a mechanistic advantage for the evolution of the OR complex in flying insects.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/21/3428


Osmoregulation, bioenergetics and oxidative stress in coastal marine invertebrates: raising the questions for future research
Osmoregulation is by no means an energetically cheap process, and its costs have been extensively quantified in terms of respiration and aerobic metabolism. Common products of mitochondrial activity are reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, which may cause oxidative stress by degrading key cell components, while playing essential roles in cell homeostasis. Given the delicate equilibrium between pro- and antioxidants in fueling acclimation responses, the need for a thorough understanding of the relationship between salinity-induced oxidative stress and osmoregulation arises as an important issue, especially in the context of global changes and anthropogenic impacts on coastal habitats. This is especially urgent for intertidal/estuarine organisms, which may be subject to drastic salinity and habitat changes, leading to redox imbalance. How do osmoregulation strategies determine energy expenditure, and how do these processes affect organisms in terms of oxidative stress? What mechanisms are used to cope with salinity-induced oxidative stress? This Commentary aims to highlight the main gaps in our knowledge, covering all levels of organization. From an energy-redox perspective, we discuss the link between environmental salinity changes and physiological responses at different levels of biological organization. Future studies should seek to provide a detailed understanding of the relationship between osmoregulatory strategies and redox metabolism, thereby informing conservation physiologists and allowing them to tackle the new challenges imposed by global climate change.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/10/1749


Flight mechanics and control of escape manoeuvres in hummingbirds. II. Aerodynamic force production, flight control and performance limitations
The superior manoeuvrability of hummingbirds emerges from complex interactions of specialized neural and physiological processes with the unique flight dynamics of flapping wings. Escape manoeuvring is an ecologically relevant, natural behaviour of hummingbirds, from which we can gain understanding into the functional limits of vertebrate locomotor capacity. Here, we extend our kinematic analysis of escape manoeuvres from a companion paper to assess two potential limiting factors of the manoeuvring performance of hummingbirds: (1) muscle mechanical power output and (2) delays in the neural sensing and control system. We focused on the magnificent hummingbird (Eugenes fulgens, 7.8 g) and the black-chinned hummingbird (Archilochus alexandri, 3.1 g), which represent large and small species, respectively. We first estimated the aerodynamic forces, moments and the mechanical power of escape manoeuvres using measured wing kinematics. Comparing active-manoeuvring and passive-damping aerodynamic moments, we found that pitch dynamics were lightly damped and dominated by the effect of inertia, while roll dynamics were highly damped. To achieve observed closed-loop performance, pitch manoeuvres required faster sensorimotor transduction, as hummingbirds can only tolerate half the delay allowed in roll manoeuvres. Accordingly, our results suggested that pitch control may require a more sophisticated control strategy, such as those based on prediction. For the magnificent hummingbird, we estimated that escape manoeuvres required muscle mass-specific power 4.5 times that during hovering. Therefore, in addition to the limitation imposed by sensorimotor delays, muscle power could also limit the performance of escape manoeuvres.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/22/3532


The mechanics of head-supported load carriage by Nepalese porters
In the Everest valley of Nepal, because of the rugged mountain terrain, roads are nothing more than dirt paths and all material must be conveyed on foot. The Nepalese porters routinely carry head-supported loads, which often exceed their body mass, over long distances up and down the steep mountain footpaths. In Africa, women transport their loads economically thanks to an energy-saving gait adaptation. We hypothesized that the Nepalese porters may have developed a corresponding mechanism. To investigate this proposition, we measured the mechanical work done during level walking in Nepalese porters while carrying different loads at several speeds. Our results show that the Nepalese porters do not use an equivalent mechanism as the African women to reduce work. In contrast, the Nepalese porters develop an equal amount of total mechanical work as Western control subjects while carrying loads of 0 to 120% of their body mass at all speeds measured (0.5–1.7 m s−1), making even more impressive their ability to carry loads without any apparent mechanically determined tricks. Nevertheless, our results show that the Nepalese porters have a higher efficiency, at least at slow speeds and high loads.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/22/3626


Feeding on ripening and over-ripening fruit: interactions between sugar, ethanol and polyphenol contents in a tropical butterfly
In ripe fruit, energy mostly derives from sugar, while in over-ripe fruit, it also comes from ethanol. Such ripeness differences may alter the fitness benefits associated with frugivory if animals are unable to degrade ethanol when consuming over-ripe fruit. In the tropical butterfly Bicyclus anynana, we found that females consuming isocaloric solutions mimicking ripe (20% sucrose) and over-ripe fruit (10% sucrose, 7% ethanol) of the palm Astrocaryum standleyanum exhibited higher fecundity than females consuming a solution mimicking unripe fruit (10% sucrose). Moreover, relative to butterflies consuming a solution mimicking unripe fruit, survival was enhanced when butterflies consumed a solution mimicking either ripe fruit supplemented with polyphenols (fruit antioxidant compounds) or over-ripe fruit devoid of polyphenols. This suggests that (1) butterflies have evolved tolerance mechanisms to derive the same reproductive benefits from ethanol and sugar, and (2) polyphenols may regulate the allocation of sugar and ethanol to maintenance mechanisms. However, variation in fitness owing to the composition of feeding solutions was not paralleled by corresponding physiological changes (alcohol dehydrogenase activity, oxidative status) in butterflies. The fitness proxies and physiological parameters that we measured therefore appear to reflect distinct biological pathways. Overall, our results highlight that the energy content of fruit primarily affects the fecundity of B. anynana butterflies, while the effects of fruit consumption on survival are more complex and vary depending on ripening stage and polyphenol presence. The actual underlying physiological mechanisms linking fruit ripeness and fitness components remain to be clarified.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/17/3127


