Pigeon navigation: exposure to environmental odours prior to release is sufficient for homeward orientation, but not for homing
The role of environmental olfactory information in pigeon navigation has been extensively studied by analysing vanishing bearing distributions and homing performances of homing pigeons subjected to manipulation of their olfactory perception and/or the olfactory information they were exposed to during transportation and at the release site. However, their behaviour during the homing flight remains undocumented. In this experiment we report the analysis of tracks of birds made anosmic at the release site by washing their olfactory mucosa with zinc sulfate. We thus can assess the role of local odours at the release site as well as the role of environmental odours perceived on the way, far from the release site. We observed that pigeons transported and kept at the release site in purified air and made anosmic at the release site were unable to orient towards home and were impaired at homing. By contrast, pigeons allowed to smell environmental odours during transportation and at the release site, although made anosmic prior to release, displayed unimpaired homeward orientation, but nevertheless showed impaired homing performance. These results are consistent with the view that local odours at the release site are critical for determining the direction of displacement (olfactory map) and suggest that pigeons consult the olfactory map also during their homing flight in order to be able to find their way home.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/16/2475


Three-dimensional morphology and strain of the human Achilles free tendon immediately following eccentric heel drop exercise
Our understanding of the immediate effects of exercise on Achilles free tendon transverse morphology is limited to single site measurements acquired at rest using 2D ultrasound. The purpose of this study was to provide a detailed 3D description of changes in Achilles free tendon morphology immediately following a single clinical bout of exercise. Freehand 3D ultrasound was used to measure Achilles free tendon length, and regional cross-sectional area (CSA), medio-lateral (ML) diameter and antero-posterior (AP) diameter in healthy young adults (N=14) at rest and during isometric muscle contraction, immediately before and after 3×15 eccentric heel drops. Post-exercise reductions in transverse strain were limited to CSA and AP diameter in the mid-proximal region of the Achilles free tendon during muscle contraction. The change in CSA strain during muscle contraction was significantly correlated to the change in longitudinal strain (r=−0.72) and the change in AP diameter strain (r=0.64). Overall findings suggest the Achilles free tendon experiences a complex change in 3D morphology following eccentric heel drop exercise that manifests under contractile but not rest conditions, is most pronounced in the mid-proximal tendon and is primarily driven by changes in AP diameter strain and not ML diameter strain.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/24/3894


The cell specificity of gene expression in the response to heat stress in corals
Previous transcriptional studies in heat-stressed corals have shown that many genes are responsive to generalized heat stress whereas the expression patterns of specific gene networks after heat stress show strong correlations with variation in bleaching outcomes. However, where these specific genes are expressed is unknown. In this study, we employed in situ hybridization to identify patterns of spatial gene expression of genes previously predicted to be involved in general stress response and bleaching. We found that tumor necrosis factor receptors (TNFRs), known to be strong responders to heat stress, were not expressed in gastrodermal symbiont-containing cells but were widely expressed in specific cells of the epidermal layer. The transcription factors AP-1 and FosB, implicated as early signals of heat stress, were widely expressed throughout the oral gastrodermis and epidermis. By contrast, a G protein-coupled receptor gene (GPCR) and a fructose bisphosphate aldolase C gene (aldolase), previously implicated in bleaching, were expressed in symbiont-containing gastrodermal cells and in the epidermal tissue. Finally, chordin-like/kielin (chordin-like), a gene highly correlated to bleaching, was expressed solely in the oral gastrodermis. From this study, we confirm that heat-responsive genes occur widely in coral tissues outside of symbiont-containing cells. Joint information about expression patterns in response to heat and cell specificity will allow greater dissection of the regulatory pathways and specific cell reactions that lead to coral bleaching.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/10/1837


Tenacious D: Symbiodinium in clade D remain in reef corals at both high and low temperature extremes despite impairment
Reef corals are sensitive to thermal stress, which induces coral bleaching (the loss of algal symbionts), often leading to coral mortality. However, corals hosting certain symbionts (notably some members of Symbiodinium clade D) resist bleaching when exposed to high temperatures. To determine whether these symbionts are also cold tolerant, we exposed corals hosting either Symbiodinium C3 or D1a to incremental warming (+1°C week−1 to 35°C) and cooling (−1°C week−1 to 15°C), and measured photodamage and symbiont loss. During warming to 33°C, C3 corals were photodamaged and lost >99% of symbionts, while D1a corals experienced photodamage but did not bleach. During cooling, D1a corals suffered more photodamage than C3 corals but still did not bleach, while C3 corals lost 94% of symbionts. These results indicate that photodamage does not always lead to bleaching, suggesting alternate mechanisms exist by which symbionts resist bleaching, and helping explain the persistence of D1a symbionts on recently bleached reefs, with implications for the future of these ecosystems.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/7/1192


Differences in titin segmental elongation between passive and active stretch in skeletal muscle
Since the 1950s, muscle contraction has been explained using a two-filament system in which actin and myosin exclusively dictate active force in muscle sarcomeres. Decades later, a third filament called titin was discovered. This titin filament has recently been identified as an important regulator of active force, but has yet to be incorporated into contemporary theories of muscle contraction. When sarcomeres are actively stretched, a substantial and rapid increase in force occurs, which has been suggested to arise in part from titin–actin binding that is absent in passively stretched sarcomeres. However, there is currently no direct evidence for such binding within muscle sarcomeres. Therefore, we aimed to determine whether titin binds to actin in actively but not in passively stretched sarcomeres by observing length changes of proximal and distal titin segments in the presence and absence of calcium. We labeled I-band titin with fluorescent F146 antibody in rabbit psoas myofibrils and tracked segmental elongations during passive (no calcium) and active (high calcium) stretch. Without calcium, proximal and distal segments of titin elongated as expected based on their free spring properties. In contrast, active stretch differed statistically from passive stretch, demonstrating that calcium activation increases titin segment stiffness, but not in an actin-dependent manner. The consistent elongation of the proximal segment was contrary to what was expected if titin's proximal segment was attached to actin. This rapid calcium-dependent change in titin stiffness likely contributes to active muscle force regulation in addition to actin and myosin.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/23/4418


The neuromechanics of proleg grip release
Because soft animals are deformable, their locomotion is particularly affected by external forces and they are expected to face challenges controlling movements in different environments and orientations. We have used the caterpillar Manduca sexta to study neuromechanical strategies of soft-bodied scansorial locomotion. Manduca locomotion critically depends on the timing of proleg grip release, which is mediated by the principal planta retractor muscle and its single motoneuron, PPR. During upright crawling, PPR firing frequency increases approximately 0.6 s before grip release but during upside-down crawling, this activity begins significantly earlier, possibly pre-tensioning the muscle. Under different loading conditions the timing of PPR activity changes relative to the stance/swing cycle. PPR motor activity is greater during upside-down crawling but these frequency changes are too small to produce significant differences in muscle force. Detailed observation of the proleg tip show that it swells before the retractor muscle is activated. This small movement is correlated with the activation of more posterior body segments, suggesting that it results from indirect mechanical effects. The timing and direction of this proleg displacement implies that proleg grip release is a dynamic interplay of mechanics and active neural control.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/13/jeb173856


Changes in free amino acid concentrations and associated gene expression profiles in the abdominal muscle of kuruma shrimp (Marsupenaeus japonicus) acclimated at different salinities
Shrimps inhabiting coastal waters can survive in a wide range of salinity. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in their acclimation to different environmental salinities have remained largely unknown. In the present study, we acclimated kuruma shrimp (Marsupenaeus japonicus) at 1.7%, 3.4% and 4.0% salinities. After acclimating for 6, 12, 24 and 72 h, we determined free amino acid concentrations in their abdominal muscle, and performed RNA sequencing analysis on this muscle. The concentrations of free amino acids were clearly altered depending on salinity after 24 h of acclimation. Glutamine and alanine concentrations were markedly increased following the increase of salinity. In association with such changes, many genes related to amino acid metabolism changed their expression levels. In particular, the increase of the expression level of the gene encoding glutamate-ammonia ligase, which functions in glutamine metabolism, appeared to be associated with the increased glutamine concentration at high salinity. Furthermore, the increased alanine concentration at high salinity was likely associated with the decrease in the expression levels of the the gene encoding alanine-glyoxylate transaminase. Thus, there is a possibility that changes in the concentration of free amino acids for osmoregulation in kuruma shrimp are regulated by changes in the expression levels of genes related to amino acid metabolism.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/11/jeb168997


Bark beetles use a spring-loaded mechanism to produce variable song patterns
Many insects vary their song patterns to communicate different messages, but the underlying biomechanisms are often poorly understood. Here we report on the mechanics of sound production and variation in an elytro-tergal stridulator, male Dendroctonus valens bark beetles. Using ablation experiments coupled with high-speed video and audio recordings, we show that: 1. chirps are produced using a stridulatory file on the left elytron (forewing) and a protrusion (plectrum) on the seventh abdominal segment; 2. chirps are produced by ‘spring stridulation’, a catch-and-release mechanism whereby the plectrum catches on a file tooth, and upon release, springs forward along the file; and 3. variability in chirp types is caused by introducing multiple catch-and-release events along the file to create regular interruptions. These results provide experimental evidence for the mechanics of elytro-tergal stridulation, and provide insight into how an insect can incorporate variability into its acoustic repertoire using a spring-loaded mechanism.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/early/2019/01/25/jeb.190660


Nitric oxide production and sequestration in the sinus gland of the green shore crab Carcinus maenas
Molting in decapod crustaceans is regulated by molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH), a neuropeptide produced in the X-organ (XO)/sinus gland (SG) complex of the eyestalk ganglia (ESG). Pulsatile release of MIH from the SG suppresses ecdysteroidogenesis by the molting gland or Y-organ (YO). The hypothesis is that nitric oxide (NO), a neuromodulator that controls neurotransmitter release at presynaptic membranes, depresses the frequency and/or amount of MIH pulses to induce molting. NO synthase (NOS) mRNA was present in Carcinus maenas ESG and other tissues and NOS protein was present in the SG. A copper based ligand (CuFL), which reacts with NO to form a highly fluorescent product (NO-FL), was used to image NO in the ESG and SG and quantify the effects of NO scavenger (cPTIO), NOS inhibitor (l-NAME), and sodium azide (NaN3) on NO production in the SG. Pre-incubation with cPTIO prior to CuFL loading decreased NO-FL fluorescence ~30%; including l-NAME had no additional effect. Incubating SG with l-NAME during pre-incubation and loading decreased NO-FL fluorescence ~40%, indicating that over half of the NO release was not directly dependent on NOS activity. Azide, which reacts with NO-binding metal groups in proteins, reduced NO-FL fluorescence to near background levels without extensive cell death. Spectral shift analysis showed that azide displaced NO from a soluble protein in SG extract. These data suggest that the SG contains NO-binding protein(s) that sequester NO and releases it over a prolonged period. This NO release may modulate neuropeptide secretion from the axon termini in the SG.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/3/353


Determining position, velocity and acceleration of free-ranging animals with a low-cost unmanned aerial system
Unmanned aerial systems (UASs), frequently referred to as ‘drones’, have become more common and affordable and are a promising tool for collecting data on free-ranging wild animals. We used a Phantom-2 UAS equipped with a gimbal-mounted camera to estimate position, velocity and acceleration of a subject on the ground moving through a grid of GPS surveyed ground control points (area ∼1200 m2). We validated the accuracy of the system against a dual frequency survey grade GPS system attached to the subject. When compared with GPS survey data, the estimations of position, velocity and acceleration had a root mean square error of 0.13 m, 0.11 m s−1 and 2.31 m s−2, respectively. The system can be used to collect locomotion and localisation data on multiple free-ranging animals simultaneously. It does not require specialist skills to operate, is easily transported to field locations, and is rapidly and easily deployed. It is therefore a useful addition to the range of methods available for field data collection on free-ranging animal locomotion.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/17/2687


Endotoxin rapidly desensitizes the gonads to kisspeptin-induced luteinizing hormone release in male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus)
Activation of the immune system induces rapid reductions in hypothalamic-pituitary–gonadal (HPG) axis activity, which in turn decreases secretion of sex steroids. This response is likely adaptive for survival by temporarily inhibiting reproduction to conserve energy; however, the physiological mechanisms controlling this response remain unclear. The neuropeptide kisspeptin is a candidate to mediate the decrease in sex hormones seen during sickness through its key regulation of the HPG axis. In this study, the effects of acute immune activation on the response to kisspeptin were assessed in male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Specifically, an immune response was induced in animals by a single treatment of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and reproductive hormone concentrations were determined in response to subsequent injections of exogenous kisspeptin. Saline-treated controls showed a robust increase in circulating testosterone in response to kisspeptin; however, this response was blocked in LPS-treated animals. Circulating luteinizing hormone (LH) levels were elevated in response to kisspeptin in both LPS- and saline-treated groups and, thus, were unaffected by LPS treatment, suggesting gonad-level inhibition of testosterone release despite central HPG activation. In addition, blockade of glucocorticoid receptors by mifepristone did not attenuate the LPS-induced inhibition of testosterone release, suggesting that circulating glucocorticoids do not mediate this phenomenon. Collectively, these findings reveal that acute endotoxin exposure rapidly renders the gonads less sensitive to HPG stimulation, thus effectively inhibiting sex hormone release. More broadly, these results shed light on the effects of immune activation on the HPG axis and help elucidate the mechanisms controlling energy allocation and reproduction.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/23/jeb185504


The sphingosine rheostat is involved in the cnidarian heat stress response but not necessarily in bleaching
Sphingolipids play important roles in mitigating cellular heat and oxidative stress by altering membrane fluidity, receptor clustering and gene expression. Accumulation of signaling sphingolipids that comprise the sphingosine rheostat, pro-apoptotic sphingosine (Sph) and pro-survival sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) is key to determining cell fate. Reef-building corals and other symbiotic cnidarians living in shallow tropical waters can experience elevated seawater temperature and high UV irradiance, two stressors that are increasing in frequency and severity with climate change. In symbiotic cnidarians, these stressors disrupt the photosynthetic machinery of the endosymbiont and ultimately result in the collapse of the partnership (dysbiosis), known as cnidarian bleaching. In a previous study, exogenously applied sphingolipids altered heat-induced bleaching in the symbiotic anemone Aiptasia pallida, but endogenous regulation of these lipids is unknown. Here, we characterized the role of the rheostat in the cnidarian heat stress response (HSR) and in dysbiosis. Gene expression of rheostat enzymes sphingosine kinase (AP-SPHK) and S1P phosphatase (AP-SGPP), and concentrations of sphingolipids were quantified from anemones incubated at elevated temperatures. We observed a biphasic HSR in A. pallida. At early exposure, rheostat gene expression and lipid levels were suppressed while gene expression of a heat stress biomarker increased and 40% of symbionts were lost. After longer incubations at the highest temperature, AP-SGPP and then Sph levels both increased. These results indicate that the sphingosine rheostat in A. pallida does not participate in initiation of dysbiosis, but instead functions in the chronic response to prolonged heat stress that promotes host survival.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/9/1709


Warm preconditioning protects against acute heat-induced respiratory dysfunction and delays bleaching in a symbiotic sea anemone
Preconditioning to non-stressful warming can protect some symbiotic cnidarians against the high temperature-induced collapse of their mutualistic endosymbiosis with photosynthetic dinoflagellates (Symbiodinium spp.), a process known as bleaching. Here, we sought to determine whether such preconditioning is underpinned by differential regulation of aerobic respiration. We quantified in vivo metabolism and mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activity in the naturally symbiotic sea anemone Exaiptasia pallida preconditioned to 30°C for >7 weeks as well as anemones kept at 26°C. Preconditioning resulted in increased Symbiodinium photosynthetic activity and holobiont (host+symbiont) respiration rates. Biomass-normalised activities of host respiratory enzymes [citrate synthase and the mitochondrial electron transport chain (mETC) complexes I and IV] were higher in preconditioned animals, suggesting that increased holobiont respiration may have been due to host mitochondrial biogenesis and/or enlargement. Subsequent acute heating of preconditioned and ‘thermally naive’ animals to 33°C induced dramatic increases in host mETC complex I and Symbiodinium mETC complex II activities only in thermally naive E. pallida. These changes were not reflected in the activities of other respiratory enzymes. Furthermore, bleaching in preconditioned E. pallida (defined as the significant loss of symbionts) was delayed by several days relative to the thermally naive group. These findings suggest that changes to mitochondrial biogenesis and/or function in symbiotic cnidarians during warm preconditioning might play a protective role during periods of exposure to stressful heating.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/6/969


Metabolite profiling of symbiont and host during thermal stress and bleaching in a model cnidarian–dinoflagellate symbiosis
Bleaching (dinoflagellate symbiont loss) is one of the greatest threats facing coral reefs. The functional cnidarian–dinoflagellate symbiosis, which forms coral reefs, is based on the bi-directional exchange of nutrients. During thermal stress this exchange breaks down; however, major gaps remain in our understanding of the roles of free metabolite pools in symbiosis and homeostasis. In this study we applied gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to explore thermally induced changes in intracellular pools of amino and non-amino organic acids in each partner of the model sea anemone Aiptasia sp. and its dinoflagellate symbiont. Elevated temperatures (32°C for 6 days) resulted in symbiont photoinhibition and bleaching. Thermal stress induced distinct changes in the metabolite profiles of both partners, associated with alterations to central metabolism, oxidative state, cell structure, biosynthesis and signalling. Principally, we detected elevated pools of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in the symbiont, indicative of modifications to lipogenesis/lysis, membrane structure and nitrogen assimilation. In contrast, reductions of multiple PUFAs were detected in host pools, indicative of increased metabolism, peroxidation and/or reduced translocation of these groups. Accumulations of glycolysis intermediates were also observed in both partners, associated with photoinhibition and downstream reductions in carbohydrate metabolism. Correspondingly, we detected accumulations of amino acids and intermediate groups in both partners, with roles in gluconeogenesis and acclimation responses to oxidative stress. These data further our understanding of cellular responses to thermal stress in the symbiosis and generate hypotheses relating to the secondary roles of a number of compounds in homeostasis and heat-stress resistance.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/4/516


Silencing cuticular pigmentation genes enables RNA FISH in intact insect appendages
Optical imaging of gene expression by fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) in insects is often impeded by their pigmented cuticle. As most chemical bleaching agents are incompatible with FISH, we developed an RNA interference (RNAi)-based method for clearing cuticular pigmentation which enables the use of whole-mount body appendages for RNA FISH (termed RNA-i-FISH). Silencing laccase2 or tyrosine hydroxylase in two leaf beetles species (Chrysomela populi and Phaedon cochleariae) cleared their pigmented cuticle and decreased light absorbance. Subsequently, intact appendages (palps, antennae, legs) from RNAi-cleared individuals were used to image the expression and spatial distribution of antisense mRNA of two chemosensory genes encoding gustatory receptor and odorant-binding protein. Imaging did not work for RNAi controls because the pigmentation was retained, or for FISH controls (sense mRNA). Several bleaching agents were incompatible with FISH, because of degradation of RNA, lack of clearing efficacy or long incubation times. Overall, silencing pigmentation genes is a significant improvement over bleaching agents, enabling FISH in intact insect appendages.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/18/jeb185710


Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and dimethylated sulphur compounds in coral explants under acute thermal stress
Coral bleaching is intensifying with global climate change. Although the causes for these catastrophic events are well understood, the cellular mechanism that triggers bleaching is not well established. Our understanding of coral bleaching processes is hindered by the lack of robust methods for studying interactions between host and symbiont at the single-cell level. Here, we exposed coral explants to acute thermal stress and measured oxidative stress, more specifically, reactive oxygen species (ROS), in individual symbiont cells. Furthermore, we measured concentrations of dimethylsulphoniopropionate (DMSP) and dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) to elucidate the role of these compounds in coral antioxidant function. This work demonstrates the application of coral explants for investigating coral physiology and biochemistry under thermal stress and delivers a new approach to study host–symbiont interactions at the microscale, allowing us to directly link intracellular ROS with DMSP and DMSO dynamics.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/10/1787


Telomere dynamics in free-living edible dormice (Glis glis): the impact of hibernation and food supply
We studied the impact of hibernation and food supply on relative telomere length (RTL), an indicator for aging and somatic maintenance, in free-living edible dormice. Small hibernators such as dormice have ∼50% higher maximum longevity than non-hibernators. Increased longevity could theoretically be due to prolonged torpor directly slowing cellular damage and RTL shortening. However, although mitosis is arrested in mammals at low body temperatures, recent evidence points to accelerated RTL shortening during periodic re-warming (arousal) from torpor. Therefore, we hypothesized that these arousals during hibernation should have a negative effect on RTL. Here, we show that RTL was shortened in all animals over the course of ∼1 year, during which dormice hibernated for 7.5–11.4 months. The rate of periodic arousals, rather than the time spent euthermic during the hibernation season, was the best predictor of RTL shortening. This finding points to negative effects on RTL of the transition from low torpor to high euthermic body temperature and metabolic rate during arousals, possibly because of increased oxidative stress. The animals were, however, able to elongate their telomeres during the active season, when food availability was increased by supplemental feeding in a year of low natural food abundance. We conclude that in addition to their energetic costs, periodic arousals also lead to accelerated cellular damage in terms of RTL shortening. Although dormice are able to counteract and even over-compensate for the negative effects of hibernation, restoration of RTL appears to be energetically costly.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/16/2469


An exploratory clustering approach for extracting stride parameters from tracking collars on free-ranging wild animals
Changes in stride frequency and length with speed are key parameters in animal locomotion research. They are commonly measured in a laboratory on a treadmill or by filming trained captive animals. Here, we show that a clustering approach can be used to extract these variables from data collected by a tracking collar containing a GPS module and tri-axis accelerometers and gyroscopes. The method enables stride parameters to be measured during free-ranging locomotion in natural habitats. As it does not require labelled data, it is particularly suitable for use with difficult to observe animals. The method was tested on large data sets collected from collars on free-ranging lions and African wild dogs and validated using a domestic dog.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/3/341


Optical influence of oil droplets on cone photoreceptor sensitivity
Oil droplets are spherical organelles found in the cone photoreceptors of vertebrates. They are generally assumed to focus incident light into the outer segment, and thereby improve light catch because of the droplets' spherical lens-like shape. However, using full-wave optical simulations of physiologically realistic cone photoreceptors from birds, frogs and turtles, we find that pigmented oil droplets actually drastically reduce the transmission of light into the outer segment integrated across the full visible wavelength range of each species. Only transparent oil droplets improve light catch into the outer segments, and any enhancement is critically dependent on the refractive index, diameter of the oil droplet, and diameter and length of the outer segment. Furthermore, oil droplets are not the only optical elements found in cone inner segments. The ellipsoid, a dense aggregation of mitochondria situated immediately prior to the oil droplet, mitigates the loss of light at the oil droplet surface. We describe a framework for integrating these optical phenomena into simple models of receptor sensitivity, and the relevance of these observations to evolutionary appearance and loss of oil droplets is discussed.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/11/1997


A tale of two genes: divergent evolutionary fate of haptoglobin and hemopexin in hemoglobinless antarctic icefishes
Evolution of Antarctic notothenioid fishes in the isolated freezing Southern Ocean have led to remarkable trait gains and losses. One of the most extraordinary was the loss of the major oxygen carrier hemoglobin (Hb) in the icefishes (family Channichthyidae). While the mechanisms of this loss and the resulting compensatory changes have been well studied, the impact of Hb loss on the network of genes that once supported its recycling and disposal has remained unexplored. Here we report the functional fate and underlying molecular changes of two such key Hb-supporting proteins across the icefish family - haptoglobin (Hp) and hemopexin (Hx), crucial in removing cytotoxic free Hb and heme respectively. Hp plays a critical role in binding free Hb for intracellular recycling and absent its primary client, icefish Hp transcription is now vanishingly little and translation into a functional protein is nearly silenced. Hp genotype degeneration has manifested in separate lineages of the icefish phylogeny with three distinct nonsense mutations and a deletion-frameshift, as well as mutated polyadenylation signal sequences. Thus, Hb loss appears to have diminished selective constraint on Hp maintenance, resulting in its stochastic, co-evolutionary drift towards extinction. Hx binds free heme for iron recycling in hepatocytes. In contrast to Hp, Hx genotype integrity is preserved in the icefishes and transcription occurs at comparable levels to the red-blooded notothenioids. The persistence of Hx likely owes to continued selective pressure for its function from mitochondrial and non-Hb cellular hemoproteins.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/early/2019/02/13/jeb.188573


To crash or not to crash: how do hoverflies cope with free-fall situations and weightlessness?
Insects’ aptitude to perform hovering, automatic landing and tracking tasks involves accurately controlling their head and body roll and pitch movements, but how this attitude control depends on an internal estimation of gravity orientation is still an open question. Gravity perception in flying insects has mainly been studied in terms of grounded animals' tactile orientation responses, but it has not yet been established whether hoverflies use gravity perception cues to detect a nearly weightless state at an early stage. Ground-based microgravity simulators provide biologists with useful tools for studying the effects of changes in gravity. However, in view of the cost and the complexity of these set-ups, an alternative Earth-based free-fall procedure was developed with which flying insects can be briefly exposed to microgravity under various visual conditions. Hoverflies frequently initiated wingbeats in response to an imposed free fall in all the conditions tested, but managed to avoid crashing only in variably structured visual environments, and only episodically in darkness. Our results reveal that the crash-avoidance performance of these insects in various visual environments suggests the existence of a multisensory control system based mainly on vision rather than gravity perception.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/16/2497


The significance of respiration timing in the energetics estimates of free-ranging killer whales (Orcinus orca)
Respiration rate has been used as an indicator of metabolic rate and associated cost of transport (COT) of free-ranging cetaceans, discounting potential respiration-by-respiration variation in O2 uptake. To investigate the influence of respiration timing on O2 uptake, we developed a dynamic model of O2 exchange and storage. Individual respiration events were revealed from kinematic data from 10 adult Norwegian herring-feeding killer whales (Orcinus orca) recorded with high-resolution tags (DTAGs). We compared fixed O2 uptake per respiration models with O2 uptake per respiration estimated through a simple ‘broken-stick’ O2-uptake function, in which O2 uptake was assumed to be the maximum possible O2 uptake when stores are depleted or maximum total body O2 store minus existing O2 store when stores are close to saturated. In contrast to findings assuming fixed O2 uptake per respiration, uptake from the broken-stick model yielded a high correlation (r2>0.9) between O2 uptake and activity level. Moreover, we found that respiration intervals increased and became less variable at higher swimming speeds, possibly to increase O2 uptake efficiency per respiration. As found in previous studies, COT decreased monotonically versus speed using the fixed O2 uptake per respiration models. However, the broken-stick uptake model yielded a curvilinear COT curve with a clear minimum at typical swimming speeds of 1.7–2.4 m s−1. Our results showed that respiration-by-respiration variation in O2 uptake is expected to be significant. And though O2 consumption measurements of COT for free-ranging cetaceans remain impractical, accounting for the influence of respiration timing on O2 uptake will lead to more consistent predictions of field metabolic rates than using respiration rate alone.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/13/2066


Comparison of the validity of Hill and Huxley muscle–tendon complex models using experimental data obtained from rat m. soleus in situ
The relationship between mechanical and metabolic behaviour in the widely used Hill muscle–tendon complex (MTC) model is not straightforward, whereas this is an integral part of the Huxley model. In this study, we assessed to what extent Huxley- and Hill-type MTC models yield adequate predictions of mechanical muscle behaviour during stretch–shortening cycles (SSCs). In fully anaesthetized male Wistar rats (N=3), m. soleus was dissected completely free, except for the insertion. Cuff electrodes were placed over the n. ischiadicus. The distal end of the tendon was connected to a servo motor, via a force transducer. The setup allowed for full control over muscle stimulation and length, while force was measured. Quick-release and isovelocity contractions (part 1), and SSCs (part 2) were imposed. Simulations of part 2 were made with both a Hill and a Huxley MTC model, using parameter values determined from part 1. Modifications to the classic two-state Huxley model were made to incorporate series elasticity, activation dynamics, and active and passive force–length relationships. Results were similar for all rats. Fitting of the free parameters to the data of part 1 was near perfect (R2>0.97). During SSCs, predicted peak force and force during relaxation deviated from the experimental data for both models. Overall, both models yielded similarly adequate predictions of the experimental data. We conclude that Huxley and Hill MTC models are equally valid with respect to mechanical behaviour.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/7/977


Spatial release from masking in insects: contribution of peripheral directionality and central inhibition
The detection, identification and discrimination of sound signals in a large and noisy group of signalers are problems shared by many animals equipped with ears. While the signaling behavior of the sender may present several solutions, various properties of the sensory system in receivers may also reduce the amount of signal masking. We studied the effect of spatial release from masking, which refers to the fact that the spatial separation between the signaler and the masker can contribute to signal detection and discrimination. Except in a limited number of cases, the contribution of peripheral directionality or central nervous processing for spatial unmasking is not clear. We report the results of a study using a neurophysiological approach in two species of acoustic insects, whereby the activity of identified interneurons that either receive contralateral inhibitory input (crickets) or inhibit one another reciprocally in a bilateral pair (katydids) was examined. The analysis of the responses of a pair of omega neurons in katydids with reciprocal inhibition revealed that spatial separation of the masker from the signal facilitated signal detection by 19–20 dB with intact binaural hearing, but only by 2.5–7 dB in the monaural system, depending on the kind of analysis performed. The corresponding values for a behaviorally important interneuron of a field cricket (ascending neuron 1) were only 7.5 and 2.5 dB, respectively. We compare these values with those reported for hearing in vertebrates, and discuss the contribution of spatial release from masking to signal detection under real-world chorus conditions.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/1/44


Menthol-induced bleaching rapidly and effectively provides experimental aposymbiotic sea anemones (Aiptasia sp.) for symbiosis investigations
Experimental manipulation of the symbiosis between cnidarians and photosynthetic dinoflagellates (Symbiodinium spp.) is crucial to advancing the understanding of the cellular mechanisms involved in host–symbiont interactions, and overall coral reef ecology. The anemone Aiptasia sp. is a model for cnidarian–dinoflagellate symbiosis, and notably it can be rendered aposymbiotic (i.e. dinoflagellate-free) and re-infected with a range of Symbiodinium types. Various methods exist for generating aposymbiotic hosts; however, they can be hugely time consuming and not wholly effective. Here, we optimise a method using menthol for production of aposymbiotic Aiptasia. The menthol treatment produced aposymbiotic hosts within just 4 weeks (97–100% symbiont loss), and the condition was maintained long after treatment when anemones were held under a standard light:dark cycle. The ability of Aiptasia to form a stable symbiosis appeared to be unaffected by menthol exposure, as demonstrated by successful re-establishment of the symbiosis when anemones were experimentally re-infected. Furthermore, there was no significant impact on photosynthetic or respiratory performance of re-infected anemones.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/3/306


Do the relationships between hind limb anatomy and sprint speed variation differ between sexes in Anolis lizards?
The ability of an animal to run fast has important consequences on its survival capacity and overall fitness. Previous studies have documented how variation in the morphology of the limbs is related to variation in locomotor performance. Although these studies have suggested direct relations between sprint speed and hind limb morphology, few quantitative data exist. Consequently, it remains unclear whether selection acts in limb segment lengths, overall muscle mass or muscle architecture (e.g. muscle fiber length and cross-sectional area). Here, we investigate whether muscle architecture (mass, fiber length, and physiological cross-sectional area), hind limb segment dimensions, or both, explain variation in sprint speed across 14 species of Anolis lizards. Moreover, we test whether similar relationships exist between morphology and performance for both sexes which may not be the case given the known differences in locomotor behavior and habitat use. Our results show that the main driver of sprint speed is the variation in femur length for both males and females. Our results further show sexual dimorphism in the traits studied and moreover show differences in the traits that predict maximal sprint speed in males and females. For example, snout vent length and overall muscle mass are also a good predictors of sprint speed in males whereas no relationships between muscle mass and sprint speed was observed in females. Only a few significative relationships were found between muscle architecture (fiber length, cross sectional area) and sprint speed in male anoles suggesting that overall muscles size, rather than muscle architecture appears to be under selection.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/early/2019/01/24/jeb.188805


Sound localization behavior in Drosophila melanogaster depends on inter-antenna vibration amplitude comparisons
Drosophila melanogaster hear with their antennae: sound evokes vibration of the distal antennal segment, and this vibration is transduced by specialized mechanoreceptor cells. The left and right antennae vibrate preferentially in response to sounds arising from different azimuthal angles. Therefore, by comparing signals from the two antennae, it should be possible to obtain information about the azimuthal angle of a sound source. However, behavioral evidence of sound localization has not been reported in Drosophila. Here, we show that walking D. melanogaster do indeed turn in response to lateralized sounds. We confirm that this behavior is evoked by vibrations of the distal antennal segment. The rule for turning is different for sounds arriving from different locations: flies turn toward sounds in their front hemifield, but they turn away from sounds in their rear hemifield, and they do not turn at all in response to sounds from 90 or −90 deg. All of these findings can be explained by a simple rule: the fly steers away from the antenna with the larger vibration amplitude. Finally, we show that these behaviors generalize to sound stimuli with diverse spectro-temporal features, and that these behaviors are found in both sexes. Our findings demonstrate the behavioral relevance of the antenna's directional tuning properties. They also pave the way for investigating the neural implementation of sound localization, as well as the potential roles of sound-guided steering in courtship and exploration.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/222/3/jeb191213


Influence of fatiguing noise on auditory evoked responses to stimuli of various levels in a beluga whale, Delphinapterus leucas
The negative impact of man-made noise on the hearing of odontocetes has attracted considerable recent attention. In the majority of studies, permanent or temporary reductions in sensitivity, known as permanent or temporary threshold shift (PTS or TTS, respectively), have been investigated. In the present study, the effects of a fatiguing sound on the hearing of a beluga whale, Delphinapterus leucas, within a wide range of levels of test signals was investigated. The fatiguing noise was half-octave band-limited noise centered at 32 kHz. Post-exposure effects of this noise on the evoked responses to test stimuli (rhythmic pip trains with a 45-kHz center frequency) at various levels (from threshold to 60 dB above threshold) were measured. For baseline (pre-exposure) responses, the magnitude-versus-level function featured a segment of steep magnitude dependence on level (up to 30 dB above threshold) that was followed by a plateau segment that featured little dependence on level (30 to 55 dB above threshold). Post-exposure, the function shifted upward along the level scale. The shift was 23 dB at the threshold and up to 33 dB at the supra-threshold level. Owing to the plateau in the magnitude-versus-level function, post-exposure suppression of responses depended on the stimulus level such that higher levels corresponded to less suppression. The experimental data may be modeled based on the compressive non-linearity of the cochlea. According to the model, post-exposure responses of the cochlea to high-level stimuli are minimally suppressed compared with the pre-exposure responses, despite a substantially increased threshold.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/6/1090


Gliding for a free lunch: biomechanics of foraging flight in common swifts (Apus apus)
Although the biomechanics of animal flight have been well studied in laboratory apparatus such as wind tunnels for many years, the applicability of these data to natural flight behaviour has been examined in few instances and mostly in the context of long-distance migration. Here, we used rotational stereo-videography to record the free-flight trajectories of foraging common swifts. We found that, despite their exquisite manoeuvring capabilities, the swifts only rarely performed high-acceleration turns. More surprisingly, we also found that despite feeding on tiny insects probably moving with ambient flow, the birds adjust their air speed to optimize cost of transport over distance. Finally, swifts spent only 25% of their time flapping; the majority of their time (71%) was spent in extended wing gliding, during which the average power expended for changes in speed or elevation was 0.84 W kg−1 and not significantly different from 0. Thus, gliding swifts extracted sufficient environmental energy to pay the cost of flight during foraging.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/22/jeb186270


Recombinant interleukin-1β dilates steelhead trout coronary microvessels: effect of temperature and role of the endothelium, nitric oxide and prostaglandins
Interleukin (IL)-1β is associated with hypotension and cardiovascular collapse in mammals during heat stroke, and the mRNA expression of this pro-inflammatory cytokine increases dramatically in the blood of Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) at high temperatures. These data suggest that release of IL-1β at high temperatures negatively impacts fish cardiovascular function and could be a primary determinant of upper thermal tolerance in this taxa. Thus, we measured the concentration-dependent response of isolated steelhead trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) coronary microvessels (<150 μm in diameter) to recombinant (r) IL-1β at two temperatures (10 and 20°C). Recombinant IL-1β induced a concentration-dependent vasodilation with vessel diameter increasing by approximately 8 and 30% at 10−8 and 10−7 mol l−1, respectively. However, this effect was not temperature dependent. Both vessel denudation and cyclooxygenase blockade (by indomethacin), but not the nitric oxide (NO) antagonist L-NIO, inhibited the vasodilator effect of rIL-1β. In contrast, the concentration-dependent dilation caused by the endothelium-dependent calcium ionophore A23187 was completely abolished by L-NIO and indomethacin, suggesting that both NO and prostaglandin signaling mechanisms exist in the trout coronary microvasculature. These data: (1) are the first to demonstrate a functional link between the immune and cardiovascular systems in fishes; (2) suggest that IL-1β release at high temperatures may reduce systemic vascular resistance, and thus, the capacity of fish to maintain blood pressure; and (3) provide evidence that both NO and prostaglandins play a role in regulating coronary vascular tone, and thus, blood flow.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/14/2269


Head-mounted sensors reveal visual attention of free-flying homing pigeons
Gaze behavior offers valuable insights into attention and cognition. However, technological limitations have prevented the examination of animals' gaze behavior in natural, information-rich contexts; for example, during navigation through complex environments. Therefore, we developed a lightweight custom-made logger equipped with an inertial measurement unit (IMU) and GPS to simultaneously track the head movements and flight trajectories of free-flying homing pigeons. Pigeons have a limited range of eye movement, and their eye moves in coordination with their head in a saccadic manner (similar to primate eye saccades). This allows head movement to act as a proxy for visual scanning behavior. Our IMU sensor recorded the 3D movement of the birds' heads in high resolution, allowing us to reliably detect distinct saccade signals. The birds moved their head far more than necessary for maneuvering flight, suggesting that they actively scanned the environment. This movement was predominantly horizontal (yaw) and sideways (roll), allowing them to scan the environment with their lateral visual field. They decreased their head movement when they flew solo over prominent landmarks (major roads and a railway line) and also when they flew in pairs (especially when flying side by side, with the partner maintained in their lateral visual field). Thus, a decrease in head movement indicates a change in birds' focus of attention. We conclude that pigeons use their head gaze in a task-related manner and that tracking flying birds' head movement is a promising method for examining their visual attention during natural tasks.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/17/jeb183475


Individual differences in heart rate reveal a broad range of autonomic phenotypes in a free-living seabird population
Animals in the same population consistently differ in their physiology and behaviour, but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. As the autonomic nervous system regulates wide-ranging physiological functions, many of these phenotypic differences may be generated by autonomic activity. We investigated for the first time in a free-living animal population (the streaked shearwater, Calonectris leucomelas, a long-lived seabird) whether individuals consistently differ in autonomic activity, over time and across contexts. We repeatedly recorded electrocardiograms from individual shearwaters, and from heart rate and heart rate variability quantified sympathetic activity, which drives the ‘fight-or-flight’ response, and parasympathetic activity, which promotes ‘rest-and-digest’ processes. We found a broad range of autonomic phenotypes that persisted even across years: heart rate consistently differed among individuals during periods of stress and non-stress and these differences were driven by parasympathetic activity, thus identifying the parasympathetic rest-and-digest system as a central mechanism that can drive broad phenotypic variation in natural animal populations.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/19/jeb182758


Testing hypotheses about individual variation in plasma corticosterone in free-living salamanders
In vertebrates, many responses to stress as well as homeostatic maintenance of basal metabolism are regulated by plasma glucocorticoid hormones (GCs). Despite having crucial functions, levels of GCs are typically variable among individuals. We examined the contribution of several physiological factors to individual variation in plasma corticosterone (CORT) and the number of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the magnocellular preoptic area of the brain in free-living Allegheny Mountain dusky salamanders. We addressed three hypotheses: the current-condition hypothesis, the facilitation hypothesis and the trade-off hypothesis. Differential white blood cell count was identified as a strong contributor to individual variation in baseline CORT, stress-induced CORT and the number of CRH neurons. In contrast, we found no relationship between CORT (or CRH) and body condition, energy stores or reproductive investment, providing no support for the current-condition hypothesis or the trade-off hypothesis involving reproduction. Because of the difficulties of interpreting the functional consequences of variation in differential white blood cell counts, we were unable to distinguish between the facilitation hypothesis or the trade-off hypothesis related to immune function. However, the strong association between differential white blood cell count and hypothalamic-pituitary–adrenal/interrenal (HPA/I) activation suggests that a more thorough examination of immune profiles is critical to understanding variation in HPA/I activation.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/7/1210


Validating accelerometry estimates of energy expenditure across behaviours using heart rate data in a free-living seabird
Two main techniques have dominated the field of ecological energetics: the heart rate and doubly labelled water methods. Although well established, they are not without their weaknesses, namely expense, intrusiveness and lack of temporal resolution. A new technique has been developed using accelerometers; it uses the overall dynamic body acceleration (ODBA) of an animal as a calibrated proxy for energy expenditure. This method provides high-resolution data without the need for surgery. Significant relationships exist between the rate of oxygen consumption (V̇O2) and ODBA in controlled conditions across a number of taxa; however, it is not known whether ODBA represents a robust proxy for energy expenditure consistently in all natural behaviours and there have been specific questions over its validity during diving, in diving endotherms. Here, we simultaneously deployed accelerometers and heart rate loggers in a wild population of European shags (Phalacrocorax aristotelis). Existing calibration relationships were then used to make behaviour-specific estimates of energy expenditure for each of these two techniques. Compared with heart rate-derived estimates, the ODBA method predicts energy expenditure well during flight and diving behaviour, but overestimates the cost of resting behaviour. We then combined these two datasets to generate a new calibration relationship between ODBA and V̇O2 that accounts for this by being informed by heart rate-derived estimates. Across behaviours we found a good relationship between ODBA and V̇O2. Within individual behaviours, we found useable relationships between ODBA and V̇O2 for flight and resting, and a poor relationship during diving. The error associated with these new calibration relationships mostly originates from the previous heart rate calibration rather than the error associated with the ODBA method. The equations provide tools for understanding how energy constrains ecology across the complex behaviour of free-living diving birds.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/10/1875


Gas exchange and dive characteristics of the free-swimming backswimmer Anisops deanei
Many aquatic insects utilise air bubbles on the surface of their bodies to supply O2 while they dive. The bubbles can simply store O2, as in the case of an ‘air store’, or they can act as a physical ‘gas gill’, extracting O2 from the water. Backswimmers of the genus Anisops augment their air store with O2 from haemoglobin cells located in the abdomen. The O2 release from the haemoglobin helps stabilise bubble volume, enabling backswimmers to remain near neutrally buoyant for a period of the dive. It is generally assumed that the backswimmer air store does not act as a gas gill and that gas exchange with the water is negligible. This study combines measurements of dive characteristics under different exotic gases (N2, He, SF6, CO) with mathematical modelling, to show that the air store of the backswimmer Anisops deanei does exchange gases with the water. Our results indicate that approximately 20% of O2 consumed during a dive is obtained directly from the water. Oxygen from the water complements that released from the haemoglobin, extending the period of near-neutral buoyancy and increasing dive duration.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/21/3478


Allometry in Physarum plasmodium during free locomotion: size versus shape, speed and rhythm
Physarum plasmodium is a giant unicellular organism whose length can vary by more than three orders of magnitude. Using plasmodia ranging in size from 100 μm to 10 cm, we investigated the size dependency of their thickness distributions and locomotion speeds during free locomotion. (1) In the longitudinal direction, the organism is thickest close to the front, and decreases exponentially in thickness towards the rear. The slenderness ratio varies with body size according to a power law, such that large plasmodia are long and flat, whereas small plasmodia are short and thick. (2) The mean locomotion speed is proportional to the mean maximum thickness of the frontal part. By conducting a dimensional analysis, possible physical models are discussed. (3) The intrinsic period of the thickness oscillation, which is related to shuttle streaming (period 1–2 min), increases logarithmically with body size. (4) Various characteristics exhibit size-independent, long-period (20±10 min) oscillations, including speed, shape and intrinsic thickness oscillation period. These variations are closely coupled to formation of the entire cell shape, including undulation of thickness along the longitudinal axis and timing of branching of the frontal tip. Based on these experimental results and those reported previously, we propose a simple mathematical model for cell locomotion.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/23/3729


A role for acoustic distortion in novel rapid frequency modulation behaviour in free-flying male mosquitoes
We describe a new stereotypical acoustic behaviour by male mosquitoes in response to the fundamental frequency of female flight tones during mating sequences. This male-specific free-flight behaviour consists of phonotactic flight beginning with a steep increase in wing-beat frequency (WBF) followed by rapid frequency modulation (RFM) of WBF in the lead up to copula formation. Male RFM behaviour involves remarkably fast changes in WBF and can be elicited without acoustic feedback or physical presence of the female. RFM features are highly consistent, even in response to artificial tones that do not carry the multi-harmonic components of natural female flight tones. Comparison between audiograms of the robust RFM behaviour and the electrical responses of the auditory Johnston's organ (JO) reveals that the male JO is tuned not to the female WBF per se but, remarkably, to the difference between the male and female WBFs. This difference is generated in the JO responses as a result of intermodulation distortion products (DPs) caused by non-linear interaction between male–female flight tones in the vibrations of the antenna. We propose that male mosquitoes rely on their own flight tones in making use of DPs to acoustically detect, locate and orientate towards flying females. We argue that the previously documented flight-tone harmonic convergence of flying male and female mosquitoes could be a consequence of WBF adjustments so that DPs generated through flight-tone interaction fall within the optimal frequency ranges for JO detection.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/13/2039


Measuring abnormal movements in free-swimming fish with accelerometers: implications for quantifying tag and parasite load
Animal-borne data loggers allow movement, associated behaviours and energy expenditure in fish to be quantified without direct observations. As with any tagging, tags that are attached externally may adversely affect fish behaviour, swimming efficiency and survival. We report on free-swimming wild Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) held in a large mesocosm that exhibited distinctly aberrant rotational swimming (scouring) when externally tagged with accelerometer data loggers. To quantify the phenomenon, the cod were tagged with two sizes of loggers (18 and 6 g; <2% body mass) that measured tri-axial acceleration at 50 Hz. An automated algorithm, based on body angular rotation, was designed to extract the scouring movements from the acceleration signal (98% accuracy). The algorithm also identified the frequency pattern and associated energy expenditure of scouring in relation to tag load (% body weight). The average per cent time spent scouring (5%) was independent of tag load. The vector of the dynamic body acceleration (VeDBA), used as a proxy for energy expenditure, increased with tag load (r2=0.51), and suggests that fish with large tags spent more energy when scouring than fish with small tags. The information allowed us to determine potential detrimental effects of an external tag on fish behaviour and how these effects may be mitigated by tag size. The algorithm can potentially identify similar rotational movements associated with spawning, courtship, feeding and parasite-load shedding in the wild. The results infer a more careful interpretation of data derived from external tags and the careful consideration of tag type, drag, buoyancy and placement, as well as animal buoyancy and species.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/5/695


Transgenic line for the identification of cholinergic release sites in Drosophila melanogaster
The identification of neurotransmitter type used by a neuron is important for the functional dissection of neuronal circuits. In the model organism Drosophila melanogaster, several methods for discerning the neurotransmitter systems are available. Here, we expanded the toolbox for the identification of cholinergic neurons by generating a new line FRT-STOP-FRT-VAChT::HA that is a conditional tagged knock-in of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) gene in its endogenous locus. Importantly, in comparison to already available tools for the detection of cholinergic neurons, the FRT-STOP-FRT-VAChT::HA allele also allows for identification of the subcellular localization of the cholinergic presynaptic release sites in a cell-specific manner. We used the newly generated FRT-STOP-FRT-VAChT::HA line to characterize the Mi1 and Tm3 neurons in the fly visual system and found that VAChT is present in the axons of both cell types, suggesting that Mi1 and Tm3 neurons provide cholinergic input to the elementary motion detectors, the T4 neurons.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/8/1405


A second visual rhodopsin gene, rh1-2, is expressed in zebrafish photoreceptors and found in other ray-finned fishes
Rhodopsin (rh1) is the visual pigment expressed in rod photoreceptors of vertebrates that is responsible for initiating the critical first step of dim-light vision. Rhodopsin is usually a single copy gene; however, we previously discovered a novel rhodopsin-like gene expressed in the zebrafish retina, rh1-2, which we identified as a functional photosensitive pigment that binds 11-cis retinal and activates in response to light. Here, we localized expression of rh1-2 in the zebrafish retina to a subset of peripheral photoreceptor cells, which indicates a partially overlapping expression pattern with rh1. We also expressed, purified and characterized Rh1-2, including investigation of the stability of the biologically active intermediate. Using fluorescence spectroscopy, we found the half-life of the rate of retinal release of Rh1-2 following photoactivation to be more similar to that of the visual pigment rhodopsin than to the non-visual pigment exo-rhodopsin (exorh), which releases retinal around 5 times faster. Phylogenetic and molecular evolutionary analyses show that rh1-2 has ancient origins within teleost fishes, is under similar selective pressure to rh1, and likely experienced a burst of positive selection following its duplication and divergence from rh1. These findings indicate that rh1-2 is another functional visual rhodopsin gene, which contradicts the prevailing notion that visual rhodopsin is primarily found as a single copy gene within ray-finned fishes. The reasons for retention of this duplicate gene, as well as possible functional consequences for the visual system, are discussed.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/2/294


High-frequency temperature variability mirrors fixed differences in thermal limits of the massive coral Porites lobata
Spatial heterogeneity in environmental characteristics can drive adaptive differentiation when contrasting environments exert divergent selection pressures. This environmental and genetic heterogeneity can substantially influence population and community resilience to disturbance events. Here, we investigated corals from the highly variable back-reef habitats of Ofu Island in American Samoa that thrive in thermal conditions known to elicit widespread bleaching and mortality elsewhere. To investigate the relative importance of acclimation versus site of origin in shaping previously observed differences in coral tolerance limits at Ofu Island, specimens of the common Indo-Pacific coral Porites lobata from locations with differing levels of thermal variability were acclimated to low and high thermal variation in controlled common garden aquaria. Overall, there were minimal effects of the acclimation exposure. Corals native to the site with the highest level of daily variability grew fastest, regardless of acclimation treatment. When exposed to lethal thermal stress, corals native to both variable sites contained elevated levels of heat shock proteins and maintained photosynthetic performance for 1–2 days longer than corals from the stable environment. Despite being separated by <5 km, there was significant genetic differentiation among coral colonies (FST=0.206, P<0.0001; nuclear ribosomal DNA), whereas Symbiodiniaceae were all Cladocopium sp. (ITS type C15). Our study demonstrates consistent signatures of adaptation in growth and stress resistance in corals from naturally thermally variable habitats, suggesting that differences in the amount of thermal variability may be an important contributor to adaptive differentiation in reef-building corals.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/24/jeb188581


Cone-like rhodopsin expressed in the all-cone retina of the colubrid pine snake as a potential adaptation to diurnality
Colubridae is the largest and most diverse family of snakes, with visual systems that reflect this diversity, encompassing a variety of retinal photoreceptor organizations. The transmutation theory proposed by Walls postulates that photoreceptors could evolutionarily transition between cell types in squamates, but few studies have tested this theory. Recently, evidence for transmutation and rod-like machinery in an all-cone retina has been identified in a diurnal garter snake (Thamnophis), and it appears that the rhodopsin gene at least may be widespread among colubrid snakes. However, functional evidence supporting transmutation beyond the existence of the rhodopsin gene remains rare. We examined the all-cone retina of another colubrid, Pituophis melanoleucus, thought to be more secretive/burrowing than Thamnophis. We found that P. melanoleucus expresses two cone opsins (SWS1, LWS) and rhodopsin (RH1) within the eye. Immunohistochemistry localized rhodopsin to the outer segment of photoreceptors in the all-cone retina of the snake and all opsin genes produced functional visual pigments when expressed in vitro. Consistent with other studies, we found that P. melanoleucus rhodopsin is extremely blue-shifted. Surprisingly, P. melanoleucus rhodopsin reacted with hydroxylamine, a typical cone opsin characteristic. These results support the idea that the rhodopsin-containing photoreceptors of P. melanoleucus are the products of evolutionary transmutation from rod ancestors, and suggest that this phenomenon may be widespread in colubrid snakes. We hypothesize that transmutation may be an adaptation for diurnal, brighter-light vision, which could result in increased spectral sensitivity and chromatic discrimination with the potential for colour vision.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/13/2418


Spatial resolving power and spectral sensitivity of the saltwater crocodile, Crocodylus porosus, and the freshwater crocodile, Crocodylus johnstoni
Crocodilians are apex amphibious predators that occupy a range of tropical habitats. In this study, we examined whether their semi-aquatic lifestyle and ambush hunting mode are reflected in specific adaptations in the peripheral visual system. Design-based stereology and microspectrophotometry were used to assess spatial resolving power and spectral sensitivity of saltwater (Crocodylus porosus) and freshwater crocodiles (Crocodylus johnstoni). Both species possess a foveal streak that spans the naso-temporal axis and mediates high spatial acuity across the central visual field. The saltwater crocodile and freshwater crocodile have a peak spatial resolving power of 8.8 and 8.0 cycles deg−1, respectively. Measurement of the outer segment dimensions and spectral absorbance revealed five distinct photoreceptor types consisting of three single cones, one twin cone and a rod. The three single cones (saltwater/freshwater crocodile) are violet (424/426 nm λmax), green (502/510 nm λmax) and red (546/554 nm λmax) sensitive, indicating the potential for trichromatic colour vision. The visual pigments of both members of the twin cones have the same λmax as the red-sensitive single cone and the rod has a λmax at 503/510 nm (saltwater/freshwater). The λmax values of all types of visual pigment occur at longer wavelengths in the freshwater crocodile compared with the saltwater crocodile. Given that there is a greater abundance of long wavelength light in freshwater compared with a saltwater environment, the photoreceptors would be more effective at detecting light in their respective habitats. This suggests that the visual systems of both species are adapted to the photic conditions of their respective ecological niche.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/9/1394


The implications of reduced metabolic rate in resource-limited corals
Many organisms exhibit depressed metabolism when resources are limited, a change that makes it possible to balance an energy budget. For symbiotic reef corals, daily cycles of light and periods of intense cloud cover can be chronic causes of food limitation through reduced photosynthesis. Furthermore, coral bleaching is common in present-day reefs, creating a context in which metabolic depression could have beneficial value to corals. In the present study, corals (massive Porites spp.) were exposed to an extreme case of resource limitation by starving them of food and light for 20 days. When resources were limited, the corals depressed area-normalized respiration to 37% of initial rates, and coral biomass declined to 64% of initial amounts, yet the corals continued to produce skeletal mass. However, the declines in biomass cannot account for the declines in area-normalized respiration, as mass-specific respiration declined to 30% of the first recorded time point. Thus, these corals appear to be capable of metabolic depression. It is possible that some coral species are better able to depress metabolic rates than others; such variation could explain differential survival during conditions that limit resources (e.g. shading). Furthermore, we found that maintenance of existing biomass, in part, supports the production of skeletal mass. This association could be explained if maintenance supplies needed energy (e.g. ATP) or inorganic carbon (i.e. CO2) that otherwise limits the production of skeletal mass. Finally, the observed metabolic depression can be explained as a change in pool sizes, and does not require a change in metabolic rules.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/6/870


Early gametogenesis in the Pacific oyster: new insights using stem cell and mitotic markers
While our knowledge of bivalve gametogenesis has progressed in recent times, more molecular markers are needed in order to develop tissue imaging. Here, we identified stem cell and mitotic markers to further characterize oyster early gametogenesis, mainly through immunofluorescence microscopy. Intense alkaline phosphatase activity, a non-specific marker for stem cells, was detected on the outer edge of the gonad ducts at the post-spawning stage, suggesting an abundance of undifferentiated cells very early during the sexual cycle. This observation was confirmed using an antibody against Sox2, a transcription factor specific for stem or germline cells, which labeled cells in the gonad duct inner mass and ciliated epithelium early during the initial oyster sexual cycle. Moreover, Vasa, a cytoplasmic marker for germline cells, was also detected in the gonad acini and duct cells, thus confirming that germline cells were abundant early on. In addition, the binding of the minichromosome maintenance MCM6 protein to chromatin indicated the gonad acini and duct cells were engaged in the cell cycle. DNA replication was indeed confirmed by an abundant in vivo incorporation of BrdU into the duct cell chromatin. Finally, proliferation of acini and duct cells was demonstrated by the chromatin-bound Ser10-phosphorylated histone H3, a mitotic marker. The markers for the cell cycle and mitosis used here thus indicate that acini and duct cells were already actively dividing early during the oyster sexual cycle. In addition, together with the stem cell markers, these data reveal that the epithelium delimiting the duct outer edge contains a dynamic population of undifferentiated cells.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/21/3988


Structural and functional characterization of the contractile aorta and associated hemocytes of the mosquito Anopheles gambiae
The primary pump of the circulatory system of insects is a dorsal vessel that traverses the length of the insect. The anterior portion, located in the head, neck and thorax, is the aorta, and the posterior portion, located in the abdomen, is the heart. Here, we characterize the structure and function of the aorta and conical chamber of the mosquito, Anopheles gambiae. The aorta begins in the head with an excurrent opening located above the dorsal pharyngeal plate and ends at the thoraco-abdominal junction where it joins the conical chamber of the heart. The aorta lacks ostia, and based on the diameter of the vessel as well as the density and helical orientation of muscle, consists of three regions: the anterior aorta, the bulbous chamber, and the posterior aorta. The aorta contracts in the anterograde direction, but these contractions are independent of heart contractions and do not play a major role in hemolymph propulsion. Intravital imaging of the venous channels, the first abdominal segment and the neck revealed that hemolymph only travels through the aorta in the anterograde direction, and does so only during periods of anterograde heart flow. Furthermore, hemolymph only enters the thoraco-abdominal ostia of the conical chamber when the heart contracts in the retrograde direction, propelling this hemolymph to the posterior of the body. Finally, very few hemocytes associate with the aorta, and unlike what is seen in the periostial regions of the heart, infection does not induce the aggregation of hemocytes on the aorta.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/12/jeb181107


DNA methylation profiles in red blood cells of adult hens correlate with their rearing conditions
Stressful conditions are common in the environment where production animals are reared. Stress in animals is usually determined by the levels of stress-related hormones. A big challenge, however, is in determining the history of exposure of an organism to stress, because the release of stress hormones can show an acute (and recent) but not a sustained exposure to stress. Epigenetic tools provide an alternative option to evaluate past exposure to long-term stress. Chickens provide a unique model to study stress effects in the epigenome of red blood cells (RBCs), a cell type of easy access and nucleated in birds. The present study investigated whether two different rearing conditions in chickens can be identified by looking at DNA methylation patterns in their RBCs later in life. These conditions were rearing in open aviaries versus in cages, which are likely to differ regarding the amount of stress they generate. Our comparison revealed 115 genomic windows with significant changes in RBC DNA methylation between experimental groups, which were located around 53 genes and within 22 intronic regions. Our results set the ground for future detection of long-term stress in live production animals by measuring DNA methylation in a cell type of easy accessibility.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/19/3579


Developmentally arrested Austrofundulus limnaeus embryos have changes in post-translational modifications of histone H3
Although vertebrate embryogenesis is typically a continuous and dynamic process, some embryos have evolved mechanisms to developmentally arrest. The embryos of Austrofundulus limnaeus, a killifish that resides in ephemeral ponds, routinely enter diapause II (DII), a reversible developmental arrest promoted by endogenous cues rather than environmental stress. DII, which starts at 24–26 days post-fertilization and can persist for months, is characterized by a significant decline in heart rate and an arrest of development and differentiation. Thus, A. limnaeus is a unique model to study epigenetic features associated with embryonic arrest. To investigate chromosome structures associated with mitosis or gene expression, we examined the post-translational modifications of histone H3 (phosphorylation of serine 10, mono-, di- and tri-methylation of lysine 4 or 27) in preDII, DII and postDII embryos. As seen by microscopy analysis, DII embryos have a significant decrease in the H3S10P marker for mitotic nuclei and an inner nuclear membrane localization of the H3K27me2 marker associated with silencing of gene expression. ELISA experiments reveal that the levels of methylation at H3K4 and H3K27 are significantly different between preDII, DII and postDII embryos, indicating that there are molecular differences between embryos of different chronological age and stage of development. Furthermore, in DII embryos relative to preDII embryos, there are differences in the level of H3K27me3 and H3K4me3, which may reflect critical chromatin remodeling that occurs prior to arrest of embryogenesis. This work helps lay a foundation for chromatin analysis of vertebrate embryo diapause, an intriguing yet greatly understudied phenomenon.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/4/544


Developmental changes in head movement kinematics during swimming in Xenopus laevis tadpoles
During the post-embryonic developmental growth of animals, a number of physiological parameters such as locomotor performance, dynamics and behavioural repertoire are adjusted to match the requirements determined by changes in body size, proportions and shape. Moreover, changes in movement parameters also cause changes in the dynamics of self-generated sensory stimuli, to which motion-detecting sensory systems have to adapt. Here, we examined head movements and swimming kinematics of Xenopus laevis tadpoles with a body length of 10–45 mm (developmental stage 46–54) and compared these parameters with fictive swimming, recorded as ventral root activity in semi-intact in vitro preparations. Head movement kinematics was extracted from high-speed video recordings of freely swimming tadpoles. Analysis of these locomotor episodes indicated that the swimming frequency decreased with development, along with the angular velocity and acceleration of the head, which represent self-generated vestibular stimuli. In contrast, neither head oscillation amplitude nor forward velocity changed with development despite the ∼3-fold increase in body size. The comparison between free and fictive locomotor dynamics revealed very similar swimming frequencies for similarly sized animals, including a comparable developmental decrease of the swimming frequency. Body morphology and the motor output rhythm of the spinal central pattern generator therefore develop concurrently. This study thus describes development-specific naturalistic head motion profiles, which form the basis for more natural stimuli in future studies probing the vestibular system.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/2/227


Comparative locomotor costs of domestic dogs reveal energetic economy of wolf-like breeds
The broad diversity in morphology and geographic distribution of the 35 free-ranging members of the family Canidae is only rivaled by that of the domesticated dog, Canis lupus familiaris. Considered to be among nature's most elite endurance athletes, both domestic and wild canids provide a unique opportunity to examine the variability in mammalian aerobic exercise performance and energy expenditure. To determine the potential effects of domestication and selective breeding on locomotor gait and economy in canids, we measured the kinematics and mass-specific metabolism of three large (>20 kg) dog breed groups (northern breeds, retrievers and hounds) of varying morphological and genomic relatedness to their shared progenitor, the gray wolf. By measuring all individuals moving in preferred steady-state gaits along a level transect and on a treadmill, we found distinct biomechanical, kinematic and energetic patterns for each breed group. While all groups exhibited reduced total cost of transport (COT) at faster speeds, the total COT and net COT during trotting and galloping were significantly lower for northern breed dogs (3.0 and 2.1 J kg−1 m−1, respectively) relative to hound (4.2 and 3.4 J kg−1 m−1, respectively) and retriever dogs (3.8 and 3.0 J kg−1 m−1, respectively) of comparable mass. Similarly, northern breeds expended less energy per stride (3.5 J kg−1 stride−1) than hounds or retrievers (5.0 and 4.0 J kg−1 stride−1, respectively). These results suggest that, in addition to their close genetic and morphological ties to gray wolves, northern breed dogs have retained highly cursorial kinematic and physiological traits that promote economical movement across the landscape.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/2/312


