Functional plasticity of the gut and the Malpighian tubules underlies cold acclimation and mitigates cold-induced hyperkalemia in Drosophila melanogaster
At low temperatures, Drosophila, like most insects, lose the ability to regulate ion and water balance across the gut epithelia, which can lead to a lethal increase of [K+] in the hemolymph (hyperkalemia). Cold acclimation, the physiological response to a prior low temperature exposure, can mitigate or entirely prevent these ion imbalances, but the physiological mechanisms that facilitate this process are not well understood. Here, we test whether plasticity in the ionoregulatory physiology of the gut and Malpighian tubules of Drosophila may aid in preserving ion homeostasis in the cold. Upon adult emergence, D. melanogaster females were subjected to 7 days at warm (25°C) or cold (10°C) acclimation conditions. The cold-acclimated flies had a lower critical thermal minimum (CTmin), recovered from chill coma more quickly, and better maintained hemolymph K+ balance in the cold. The improvements in chill tolerance coincided with increased Malpighian tubule fluid secretion and better maintenance of K+ secretion rates in the cold, as well as reduced rectal K+ reabsorption in cold-acclimated flies. To test whether modulation of ion-motive ATPases, the main drivers of epithelial transport in the alimentary canal, mediate these changes, we measured the activities of Na+/K+-ATPase and V-type H+-ATPase at the Malpighian tubules, midgut, and hindgut. Na+/K+-ATPase and V-type H+-ATPase activities were lower in the midgut and the Malpighian tubules of cold-acclimated flies, but unchanged in the hindgut of cold-acclimated flies, and were not predictive of the observed alterations in K+ transport. Our results suggest that modification of Malpighian tubule and gut ion and water transport probably prevents cold-induced hyperkalemia in cold-acclimated flies, and that this process is not directly related to the activities of the main drivers of ion transport in these organs, Na+/K+- and V-type H+-ATPases.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/6/jeb174904


The importance of thermal history: costs and benefits of heat exposure in a tropical, rocky shore oyster
Although thermal performance is widely recognised to be pivotal in determining species’ distributions, assessment of this performance is often based on laboratory-acclimated individuals, neglecting their proximate thermal history. The thermal history of a species sums the evolutionary history and, importantly, the thermal events recently experienced by individuals, including short-term acclimation to environmental variations. Thermal history is perhaps of greatest importance for species inhabiting thermally challenging environments and therefore assumed to be living close to their thermal limits, such as in the tropics. To test the importance of thermal history, the responses of the tropical oyster Isognomon nucleus to short-term differences in thermal environments were investigated. Critical and lethal temperatures and oxygen consumption were improved in oysters that previously experienced elevated air temperatures, and were associated with an enhanced heat shock response, indicating that recent thermal history affects physiological performance as well as inducing short-term acclimation to acute conditions. These responses were, however, associated with trade-offs in feeding activity, with oysters that experienced elevated temperatures showing reduced energy gain. Recent thermal history, therefore, seems to rapidly invoke physiological mechanisms that enhance survival of short-term thermal challenge but also longer term climatic changes and consequently needs to be incorporated into assessments of species’ thermal performances.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/5/686


Enhanced fertility and chill tolerance after cold-induced reproductive arrest in females of temperate species of the Drosophila buzzatii complex
Long-term exposure to low temperatures during adult maturation might decrease fertility after cold recovery as a consequence of carry-over effects on reproductive tissues. This pattern should be more pronounced in tropical than in temperate species as protective mechanisms against chilling injuries are expected to be more effective in the latter. We initially determined the lower thermal thresholds to induce ovarian maturation in four closely related Drosophila species, two inhabiting temperate regions and the other two tropical areas of South America. As expected, only temperate species regularly experience cold-inducing conditions for reproductive arrest during winter in their natural environment. Subsequently, we exposed reproductively arrested and mature females to cold-inducing conditions for reproductive arrest over a long period. Following cold exposure, tropical species exhibited a dramatic fertility decline, irrespective of reproductive status. In contrast, not only were temperate females fecund and fertile but also fertility was superior in females that underwent cold-induced reproductive arrest, suggesting that it might act as a protecting mechanism ensuring fertility after cold recovery. Based on these findings, we decided to evaluate the extent to which reproductive status affects cold tolerance and energy metabolism at low temperature. We found a lower metabolic rate and a higher cold tolerance in reproductively arrested females, although only temperate species attained high levels of chill tolerance. These findings highlight the role of cold-induced reproductive arrest as part of an integrated mechanism of cold adaptation that could potentially contribute to the spread of temperate species into higher latitudes or altitudes.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/4/713


Parallel ionoregulatory adjustments underlie phenotypic plasticity and evolution of Drosophila cold tolerance
Low temperature tolerance is the main predictor of variation in the global distribution and performance of insects, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying cold tolerance variation are poorly known, and it is unclear whether the mechanisms that improve cold tolerance within the lifetime of an individual insect are similar to those that underlie evolved differences among species. The accumulation of cold-induced injuries by hemimetabolous insects is associated with loss of Na+ and K+ homeostasis. Here we show that this model holds true for Drosophila; cold exposure increases haemolymph [K+] in D. melanogaster, and cold-acclimated flies maintain low haemolymph [Na+] and [K+], both at rest and during a cold exposure. This pattern holds across 24 species of the Drosophila phylogeny, where improvements in cold tolerance have been consistently paired with reductions in haemolymph [Na+] and [K+]. Cold-acclimated D. melanogaster have low activity of Na+/K+-ATPase, which may contribute to the maintenance of low haemolymph [Na+] and underlie improvements in cold tolerance. Modifications to ion balance are associated with both phenotypic plasticity within D. melanogaster and evolutionary differences in cold tolerance across the Drosophila phylogeny, which suggests that adaptation and acclimation of cold tolerance in insects may occur through similar mechanisms. Cold-tolerant flies maintain haemolymph osmolality despite low haemolymph [Na+] and [K+], possibly through modest accumulations of organic osmolytes. We propose that this could have served as an evolutionary route by which chill-susceptible insects developed more extreme cold tolerance strategies.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/3/423


Physiological responses to short-term thermal stress in mayfly (Neocloeon triangulifer) larvae in relation to upper thermal limits
Understanding species' thermal limits and their physiological determinants is critical in light of climate change and other human activities that warm freshwater ecosystems. Here, we ask whether oxygen limitation determines the chronic upper thermal limits in larvae of the mayfly Neocloeon triangulifer, an emerging model for ecological and physiological studies. Our experiments are based on a robust understanding of the upper acute (∼40°C) and chronic thermal limits of this species (>28°C, ≤30°C) derived from full life cycle rearing experiments across temperatures. We tested two related predictions derived from the hypothesis that oxygen limitation sets the chronic upper thermal limits: (1) aerobic scope declines in mayfly larvae as they approach and exceed temperatures that are chronically lethal to larvae; and (2) genes indicative of hypoxia challenge are also responsive in larvae exposed to ecologically relevant thermal limits. Neither prediction held true. We estimated aerobic scope by subtracting measurements of standard oxygen consumption rates from measurements of maximum oxygen consumption rates, the latter of which was obtained by treating with the metabolic uncoupling agent carbonyl cyanide-4-(trifluoromethoxy) pheylhydrazone (FCCP). Aerobic scope was similar in larvae held below and above chronic thermal limits. Genes indicative of oxygen limitation (LDH, EGL-9) were only upregulated under hypoxia or during exposure to temperatures beyond the chronic (and more ecologically relevant) thermal limits of this species (LDH). Our results suggest that the chronic thermal limits of this species are likely not driven by oxygen limitation, but rather are determined by other factors, e.g. bioenergetics costs. We caution against the use of short-term thermal ramping approaches to estimate critical thermal limits (CTmax) in aquatic insects because those temperatures are typically higher than those that occur in nature.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/14/2598


Chronic warm exposure impairs growth performance and reduces thermal safety margins in the common triplefin fish (Forsterygion lapillum)
Intertidal fish species face gradual chronic changes in temperature and greater extremes of acute thermal exposure through climate-induced warming. As sea temperatures rise, it has been proposed that whole-animal performance will be impaired through oxygen and capacity limited thermal tolerance [OCLTT; reduced aerobic metabolic scope (MS)] and, on acute exposure to high temperatures, thermal safety margins may be reduced because of constrained acclimation capacity of upper thermal limits. Using the New Zealand triplefin fish (Forsterygion lapillum), this study addressed how performance in terms of growth and metabolism (MS) and upper thermal tolerance limits would be affected by chronic exposure to elevated temperature. Growth was measured in fish acclimated (12 weeks) to present and predicted future temperatures and metabolic rates were then determined in fish at acclimation temperatures and with acute thermal ramping. In agreement with the OCLTT hypothesis, chronic exposure to elevated temperature significantly reduced growth performance and MS. However, despite the prospect of impaired growth performance under warmer future summertime conditions, an annual growth model revealed that elevated temperatures may only shift the timing of high growth potential and not the overall annual growth rate. While the upper thermal tolerance (i.e. critical thermal maxima) increased with exposure to warmer temperatures and was associated with depressed metabolic rates during acute thermal ramping, upper thermal tolerance did not differ between present and predicted future summertime temperatures. This suggests that warming may progressively decrease thermal safety margins for hardy generalist species and could limit the available habitat range of intertidal populations.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/19/3527


Cold acclimation improves chill tolerance in the migratory locust through preservation of ion balance and membrane potential
Most insects have the ability to alter their cold tolerance in response to temporal temperature fluctuations, and recent studies have shown that insect cold tolerance is closely tied to the ability to maintain transmembrane ion gradients that are important for the maintenance of cell membrane potential (Vm). Several studies have therefore suggested a link between preservation of Vm and cellular survival after cold stress, but none has measured Vm in this context. We tested this hypothesis by acclimating locusts (Locusta migratoria) to high (31°C) and low temperature (11°C) for 4 days before exposing them to cold stress (0°C) for up to 48 h and subsequently measuring ion balance, cell survival, muscle Vm, and whole animal performance. Cold stress caused gradual muscle cell death, which coincided with a loss of ion balance and depolarization of muscle Vm. The loss of ion balance and cell polarization were, however, dampened markedly in cold-acclimated locusts such that the development of chill injury was reduced. To further examine the association between cellular injury and Vm we exposed in vitro muscle preparations to cold buffers with low, intermediate, or high [K+]. These experiments revealed that cellular injury during cold exposure occurs when Vm becomes severely depolarized. Interestingly, we found that cellular sensitivity to hypothermic hyperkalaemia was lower in cold-acclimated locusts that were better able to defend Vm whilst exposed to high extracellular [K+]. Together these results demonstrate a mechanism of cold acclimation in locusts that improves survival after cold stress: increased cold tolerance is accomplished by preservation of Vm through maintenance of ion homeostasis and decreased K+ sensitivity.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/3/487


Hemolymph metabolites and osmolality are tightly linked to cold tolerance of Drosophila species: a comparative study
Drosophila, like most insects, are susceptible to low temperatures, and will succumb to temperatures above the freezing point of their hemolymph. For these insects, cold exposure causes a loss of extracellular ion and water homeostasis, leading to chill injury and eventually death. Chill-tolerant species are characterized by lower hemolymph [Na+] than chill-susceptible species and this lowered hemolymph [Na+] is suggested to improve ion and water homeostasis during cold exposure. It has therefore also been hypothesized that hemolymph Na+ is replaced by other ‘cryoprotective’ osmolytes in cold-tolerant species. Here, we compared the hemolymph metabolite profiles of five drosophilid species with marked differences in chill tolerance. All species were examined under ‘normal’ thermal conditions (i.e. 20°C) and following cold exposure (4 h at 0°C). Under benign conditions, total hemolymph osmolality was similar among all species despite chill-tolerant species having lower hemolymph [Na+]. Using NMR spectroscopy, we found that chill-tolerant species instead have higher levels of sugars and free amino acids in their hemolymph, including classical ‘cryoprotectants’ such as trehalose and proline. In addition, we found that chill-tolerant species maintain a relatively stable hemolymph osmolality and metabolite profile when exposed to cold stress while sensitive species suffer from large increases in osmolality and massive changes in their metabolic profiles during a cold stress. We suggest that the larger contribution of classical cryoprotectants in chill-tolerant Drosophila plays a non-colligative role for cold tolerance that contributes to osmotic and ion homeostasis during cold exposure and, in addition, we discuss how these comparative differences may represent an evolutionary pathway toward more extreme cold tolerance of insects.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/16/2504


Cardiac plasticity influences aerobic performance and thermal tolerance in a tropical, freshwater fish at elevated temperatures
Fishes faced with novel thermal conditions often modify physiological functioning to compensate for elevated temperatures. This physiological plasticity (thermal acclimation) has been shown to improve metabolic performance and extend thermal limits in many species. Adjustments in cardiorespiratory function are often invoked as mechanisms underlying thermal plasticity because limitations in oxygen supply have been predicted to define thermal optima in fishes; however, few studies have explicitly linked cardiorespiratory plasticity to metabolic compensation. Here, we quantified thermal acclimation capacity in the commercially harvested Nile perch (Lates niloticus) of East Africa, and investigated mechanisms underlying observed changes. We reared juvenile Nile perch for 3 months under two temperature regimes, and then measured a series of metabolic traits (e.g. aerobic scope) and critical thermal maximum (CTmax) upon acute exposure to a range of experimental temperatures. We also measured morphological traits of heart ventricles, gills and brains to identify potential mechanisms for compensation. We found that long-term (3 month) exposure to elevated temperature induced compensation in upper thermal tolerance (CTmax) and metabolic performance (standard and maximum metabolic rate, and aerobic scope), and induced cardiac remodeling in Nile perch. Furthermore, variation in heart morphology influenced variations in metabolic function and thermal tolerance. These results indicate that plastic changes enacted over longer exposures lead to differences in metabolic flexibility when organisms are acutely exposed to temperature variation. Furthermore, we established functional links between cardiac plasticity, metabolic performance and thermal tolerance, providing evidence that plasticity in cardiac capacity may be one mechanism for coping with climate change.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/15/jeb178087


The role of stochastic thermal environments in modulating the thermal physiology of an intertidal limpet, Lottia digitalis
Much of our understanding of the thermal physiology of intertidal organisms comes from experiments with animals acclimated under constant conditions and exposed to a single heat stress. In nature, however, the thermal environment is more complex. Aerial exposure and the unpredictable nature of thermal stress during low tides may be critical factors in defining the thermal physiology of intertidal organisms. In the fingered limpet, Lottia digitalis, we investigated whether upper temperature tolerance and thermal sensitivity were influenced by the pattern of fluctuation with which thermal stress was applied. Specifically, we examined whether there was a differential response (measured as cardiac performance) to repeated heat stress of a constant and predictable magnitude compared with heat stress applied in a stochastic and unpredictable nature. We also investigated differences in cellular metabolism and damage following immersion for insights into biochemical mechanisms of tolerance. Upper temperature tolerance increased with aerial exposure, but no significant differences were found between predictable treatments of varying magnitudes (13°C versus 24°C versus 32°C). Significant differences in thermal tolerance were found between unpredictable trials with different heating patterns. There were no significant differences among treatments in basal citrate synthase activity, glycogen content, oxidative stress or antioxidants. Our results suggest that aerial exposure and recent thermal history, paired with relief from high low-tide temperatures, are important factors modulating the capacity of limpets to deal with thermal stress.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/17/3072


Oxygen dependence of upper thermal limits in fishes
Temperature-induced limitations on the capacity of the cardiorespiratory system to transport oxygen from the environment to the tissues, manifested as a reduced aerobic scope (maximum minus standard metabolic rate), have been proposed as the principal determinant of the upper thermal limits of fishes and other water-breathing ectotherms. Consequently, the upper thermal niche boundaries of these animals are expected to be highly sensitive to aquatic hypoxia and other environmental stressors that constrain their cardiorespiratory performance. However, the generality of this dogma has recently been questioned, as some species have been shown to maintain aerobic scope at thermal extremes. Here, we experimentally tested whether reduced oxygen availability due to aquatic hypoxia would decrease the upper thermal limits (i.e. the critical thermal maximum, CTmax) of the estuarine red drum (Sciaenops ocellatus) and the marine lumpfish (Cyclopterus lumpus). In both species, CTmax was independent of oxygen availability over a wide range of oxygen levels despite substantial (>72%) reductions in aerobic scope. These data show that the upper thermal limits of water-breathing ectotherms are not always linked to the capacity for oxygen transport. Consequently, we propose a novel metric for classifying the oxygen dependence of thermal tolerance; the oxygen limit for thermal tolerance (PCTmax), which is the water oxygen tension (PwO2) where an organism's CTmax starts to decline. We suggest that this metric can be used for assessing the oxygen sensitivity of upper thermal limits in water-breathing ectotherms, and the susceptibility of their upper thermal niche boundaries to environmental hypoxia.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/21/3376


Can physiological engineering/programming increase multi-generational thermal tolerance to extreme temperature events?
Organisms increasingly encounter higher frequencies of extreme weather events as a consequence of global climate change. Currently, few strategies are available to mitigate climate change effects on animals arising from acute extreme high-temperature events. We tested the capacity of physiological engineering to influence the intra- and multi-generational upper thermal tolerance capacity of a model organism, Artemia, subjected to extreme high temperatures. Enhancement of specific physiological regulators during development could affect thermal tolerance or life-history attributes affecting subsequent fitness. Using experimental Artemia populations, we exposed F0 individuals to one of four treatments: heat hardening (28°C to 36°C, 1°C per 10 min), heat hardening plus serotonin (0.056 μg ml−1), heat hardening plus methionine (0.79 mg ml−1) and a control treatment. Regulator concentrations were based on previous literature. Serotonin may promote thermal tolerance, acting upon metabolism and life history. Methionine acts as a methylation agent across generations. For all groups, measurements were collected for three performance traits of individual thermal tolerance (upper sublethal thermal limit, lethal limit and dysregulation range) over two generations. The results showed that no treatment increased the upper thermal limit during acute thermal stress, although serotonin-treated and methionine-treated individuals outperformed controls across multiple thermal performance traits. Additionally, some effects were evident across generations. Together, these results suggest that phenotypic engineering provides complex outcomes, and if implemented with heat hardening can further influence performance in multiple thermal tolerance traits, within and across generations. Potentially, such techniques could be up-scaled to provide resilience and stability in populations susceptible to extreme temperature events.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/14/jeb174672


Thermal imprinting modifies bone homeostasis in cold-challenged sea bream (Sparus aurata)
Fish are ectotherms and temperature plays a determinant role in their physiology, biology and ecology, and is a driver of seasonal responses. The present study assessed how thermal imprinting during embryonic and larval stages modified the response of adult fish to low water temperature. We targeted the gilthead sea bream, which develops a condition known as winter syndrome when it is exposed to low water temperatures. Eggs and larvae of sea bream were exposed to four different thermal regimes and then the response of the resulting adults to a low temperature challenge was assessed. Sea bream exposed to a high–low thermal regime as eggs and larvae (HLT; 22°C until hatch and then 18°C until larvae–juvenile transition) had increased plasma cortisol and lower sodium and potassium in response to a cold challenge compared with the other thermal history groups. Plasma glucose and osmolality were increased in cold-challenged HLT fish relative to the unchallenged HLT fish. Cold challenge modified bone homeostasis/responsiveness in the low–high thermal regime group (LHT) relative to other groups, and ocn, ogn1/2, igf1, gr and trα/β transcripts were all downregulated. In the low temperature group (LT) and HLT group challenged with a low temperature, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activities were decreased relative to unchallenged groups, and bone calcium content also decreased in the LT group. Overall, the results indicate that thermal imprinting during early development of sea bream causes a change in the physiological response of adults to a cold challenge.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/19/3442


Mechanisms and costs of mitochondrial thermal acclimation in a eurythermal killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus)
Processes acting at the level of the mitochondria have been suggested to affect the thermal limits of organisms. To determine whether changes in mitochondrial properties could underlie shifts in thermal limits, we examined how mitochondrial properties are affected by thermal acclimation in the eurythermal killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus – a species with substantial plasticity in whole-organism thermal limits. We hypothesized that thermal acclimation would result in functional changes in the mitochondria that could result in trade-offs in function during acute thermal shifts. We measured the mitochondrial respiration rate (V̇O2) through multiple complexes of the electron transport system following thermal acclimation (to 5, 15, 33°C) and assessed maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential (Δp) and rates of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production as an estimate of costs. Acclimation to 5°C resulted in a modest compensation of mitochondrial respiration at low temperatures, but these mitochondria were able to maintain Δp with acute exposure to high temperatures, and ROS production did not differ between acclimation groups, suggesting that these increases in mitochondrial capacity do not alter mitochondrial thermal sensitivity. Acclimation to 33°C suppressed mitochondrial respiration as a result of effects on NADH dehydrogenase (complex I). These high-temperature acclimated fish nonetheless maintained levels of Δp and ROS production similar to those of the other acclimation groups. This work demonstrates that killifish mitochondria can successfully acclimate to a wide range of temperatures without incurring major functional trade-offs during acute thermal shifts and that high-temperature acclimation results in a suppression of metabolism, consistent with patterns observed at the organismal level.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/11/1621


Effect of temperature and food restriction on immune function in striped hamsters (Cricetulus barabensis)
Small mammals in temperate areas face seasonal fluctuations of temperature and food availability, both of which may influence their immune responses, which are critical to survival. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that low temperature and food restriction suppress immune function in striped hamsters (Cricetulus barabensis). Thirty-seven adult male hamsters were randomly assigned to warm (23±1°C) and cold (5±1°C) treatment groups, which were further divided into fed and food-restricted groups. Body mass was not affected by cold stress, food restriction or the interaction cold stress×food restriction. Cold stress decreased total body fat mass, haematological parameters including white blood cells, lymphocytes and neutrophilic granulocytes, and immunoglobin (Ig) M titres 5 days after injecting keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH). However, cold temperature increased bacterial killing capacity, indicative of innate immunity, and did not affect the mass of the thymus and spleen, intermediate granulocytes, the phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) response and the levels of blood glucose and serum leptin. Corticosterone concentration was affected significantly by the interaction cold stress×food restriction but not by cold stress or food restriction alone. Food restriction reduced thymus mass, but other immunological parameters including body fat mass, spleen mass, haematological parameters, innate immunity, PHA response, the titres of IgM and IgG, and the levels of blood glucose and serum leptin were all not affected by food restriction or the interaction cold stress×food restriction. Innate immunity was positively correlated with leptin levels, whereas no significant correlations were observed in the levels of blood glucose, serum leptin, corticosterone and all the detected immune parameters. Our results show that cold stress suppressed humoral immunity but enhanced innate immunity and did not affect cellular immunity in striped hamsters. Most immunological indices were not influenced by food restriction. Blood glucose, leptin and corticosterone could not explain the changes of innate, cellular and humoral immunity upon cold stress or food restriction in striped hamsters.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/12/2187


Antioxidant response to acute cold exposure and following recovery in juvenile Chinese soft-shelled turtles, Pelodiscus sinensis
The antioxidant defense protects turtles from oxidative stress caused by adverse environment conditions, such as acute thermal fluctuations. However, how these defenses work remains unclear. The present study examined changes in key enzymes of the enzymatic antioxidant system and the glutathione (GSH) system at both the mRNA and enzyme activity levels during acute cold exposure and following recovery in juvenile Chinese soft-shelled turtles, Pelodiscus sinensis. Transcript levels of the upstream regulator NF-E2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) were also measured. Turtles were acclimated at 28oC (3 wks), then given acute cold exposure (8oC, 12 h) and finally placed in recovery (28oC, 24 h). The mRNA levels of cerebral and hepatic Nrf2 and of downstream antioxidant enzyme genes did not change, whereas nephric Nrf2, Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPx4) mRNAs decreased in cold exposure. During recovery, Nrf2 mRNA remained stable in all three tissues, hepatic Cu/ZnSOD, MnSOD and catalase (CAT) mRNA levels increased, and nephric MnSOD and GPx4 mRNAs did not change from the values during cold exposure. In the GSH system, mRNA levels of most enzymes remained constant during cold exposure and recovery. Unmatched with changes in mRNA level, high and stable constitutive antioxidant enzyme activities were maintained throughout whereas GPx activity significantly reduced in kidney during cold exposure and in liver and kidney during recovery. Our results suggest that the antioxidant defense regulation in response to acute cold exposure in P. sinensis may not be achieved at the transcriptional level, but may rely mainly on high constitutive antioxidant enzyme activities.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/early/2019/01/09/jeb.197863


CRISPR-induced null alleles show that Frost protects Drosophila melanogaster reproduction after cold exposure
The ability to survive and reproduce after cold exposure is important in all kingdoms of life. However, even in a sophisticated genetic model system like Drosophila melanogaster, few genes have been identified as functioning in cold tolerance. The accumulation of the Frost (Fst) gene transcript increases after cold exposure, making it a good candidate for a gene that has a role in cold tolerance. Despite extensive RNAi knockdown analysis, no role in cold tolerance has been assigned to Fst. CRISPR is an effective technique for completely knocking down genes, and is less likely to produce off-target effects than GAL4-UAS RNAi systems. We have used CRISPR-mediated homologous recombination to generate Fst-null alleles, and these Fst alleles uncovered a requirement for FST protein in maintaining female fecundity following cold exposure. However, FST does not have a direct role in survival following cold exposure. FST mRNA accumulates in the Malpighian tubules, and the FST protein is a highly disordered protein with a putative signal peptide for export from the cell. Future work is needed to determine whether FST is exported from the Malpighian tubules and directly interacts with female reproductive tissues post-cold exposure, or whether it is required for other repair/recovery functions that indirectly alter energy allocation to reproduction.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/18/3344


Oxygen- and capacity-limited thermal tolerance: bridging ecology and physiology
Observations of climate impacts on ecosystems highlight the need for an understanding of organismal thermal ranges and their implications at the ecosystem level. Where changes in aquatic animal populations have been observed, the integrative concept of oxygen- and capacity-limited thermal tolerance (OCLTT) has successfully characterised the onset of thermal limits to performance and field abundance. The OCLTT concept addresses the molecular to whole-animal mechanisms that define thermal constraints on the capacity for oxygen supply to the organism in relation to oxygen demand. The resulting ‘total excess aerobic power budget’ supports an animal's performance (e.g. comprising motor activity, reproduction and growth) within an individual's thermal range. The aerobic power budget is often approximated through measurements of aerobic scope for activity (i.e. the maximum difference between resting and the highest exercise-induced rate of oxygen consumption), whereas most animals in the field rely on lower (i.e. routine) modes of activity. At thermal limits, OCLTT also integrates protective mechanisms that extend time-limited tolerance to temperature extremes – mechanisms such as chaperones, anaerobic metabolism and antioxidative defence. Here, we briefly summarise the OCLTT concept and update it by addressing the role of routine metabolism. We highlight potential pitfalls in applying the concept and discuss the variables measured that led to the development of OCLTT. We propose that OCLTT explains why thermal vulnerability is highest at the whole-animal level and lowest at the molecular level. We also discuss how OCLTT captures the thermal constraints on the evolution of aquatic animal life and supports an understanding of the benefits of transitioning from water to land.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/15/2685


Physiological responses of ectotherms to daily temperature variation
Daily thermal fluctuations (DTFs) impact the capacity of ectotherms to maintain performance and energetic demands because of thermodynamic effects on physiological processes. Mechanisms that reduce the thermal sensitivity of physiological traits may buffer ectotherms from the consequences of DTFs. Species that experience varying degrees of DTFs in their environments may differ in their responses to thermally variable conditions, if thermal performance curves reflect environmental conditions. We tested the hypothesis that in response to DTFs, tadpoles from habitats characterised by small DTFs would show greater plasticity in the thermal sensitivity of physiological processes than tadpoles from environments characterised by large DTFs. We tested the thermal sensitivity of physiological traits in tadpoles of three species that differ naturally in their exposure to DTFs, raised in control (24°C) and DTF treatments (20–30°C and 18–38°C). DTFs reduced growth in all species. Development of tadpoles experiencing DTFs was increased for tadpoles from highly thermally variable habitats (∼15%), and slower in tadpoles from less thermally variable habitats (∼30%). In general, tadpoles were unable to alter the thermal sensitivity of physiological processes, although DTFs induced plasticity in metabolic enzyme activity in all species, although to a greater extent in species from less thermally variable environments. DTFs increased upper thermal limits in all species (between 0.89 and 1.6°C). Our results suggest that the impact of increased thermal variability may favour some species while others are negatively impacted. Species that cannot compensate for increased variability by buffering growth and development will probably be most affected.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/19/3068


Reversibility of developmental heat and cold plasticity is asymmetric and has long-lasting consequences for adult thermal tolerance
The ability of insects to cope with stressful temperatures through adaptive plasticity has allowed them to thrive under a wide range of thermal conditions. Developmental plasticity is generally considered to be a non-reversible phenotypic change, e.g. in morphological traits, while adult acclimation responses are often considered to be reversible physiological responses. However, physiologically mediated thermal acclimation might not follow this general prediction. We investigated the magnitude and rate of reversibility of developmental thermal plasticity responses in heat and cold tolerance of adult flies, using a full factorial design with two developmental and two adult temperatures (15 and 25°C). We show that cold tolerance attained during development is readily adjusted to the prevailing conditions during adult acclimation, with a symmetric rate of decrease or increase. In contrast, heat tolerance is only partly reversible during acclimation and is thus constrained by the temperature during development. The effect of adult acclimation on heat tolerance was asymmetrical, with a general loss of heat tolerance with age. Surprisingly, the decline in adult heat tolerance at 25°C was decelerated in flies developed at low temperatures. This result was supported by correlated responses in two senescence-associated traits and in accordance with a lower rate of ageing after low temperature development, suggesting that physiological age is not reset at eclosion. The results have profound ecological consequences for populations, as optimal developmental temperatures will be dependent on the thermal conditions faced in the adult stage and the age at which they occur.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/17/2726


Central nervous system shutdown underlies acute cold tolerance in tropical and temperate Drosophila species
When cooled, insects first lose their ability to perform coordinated movements (CTmin) after which they enter chill coma (chill coma onset, CCO). Both these behaviours are popular measures of cold tolerance that correlate remarkably well with species distribution. To identify and understand the neuromuscular impairment that causes CTmin and CCO we used inter- and intraspecific model systems of Drosophila species that have varying cold tolerance as a consequence of adaptation or cold acclimation. Our results demonstrate that CTmin and CCO correlate strongly with a spreading depolarization (SD) within the central nervous system (CNS). We show that this SD is associated with a rapid increase in extracellular [K+] within the CNS causing neuronal depolarization that silences the CNS. The CNS shutdown is likely to be caused by a mismatch between passive and active ion transport within the CNS and in a different set of experiments we examine inter- and intraspecific differences in sensitivity to SD events during anoxic exposure. These experiments show that cold adapted or acclimated flies are better able to maintain ionoregulatory balance when active transport is compromised within the CNS. Combined, we demonstrate that a key mechanism underlying chill coma entry of Drosophila is CNS shutdown, and the ability to prevent this CNS shutdown is therefore an important component of acute cold tolerance, thermal adaptation and cold acclimation in insects.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/12/jeb179598


Antarctic notothenioid fish: what are the future consequences of ‘losses’ and ‘gains’ acquired during long-term evolution at cold and stable temperatures?
Antarctic notothenioids dominate the fish fauna of the Southern Ocean. Evolution for millions of years at cold and stable temperatures has led to the acquisition of numerous biochemical traits that allow these fishes to thrive in sub-zero waters. The gain of antifreeze glycoproteins has afforded notothenioids the ability to avert freezing and survive at temperatures often hovering near the freezing point of seawater. Additionally, possession of cold-adapted proteins and membranes permits them to sustain appropriate metabolic rates at exceptionally low body temperatures. The notothenioid genome is also distinguished by the disappearance of traits in some species, losses that might prove costly in a warmer environment. Perhaps the best-illustrated example is the lack of expression of hemoglobin in white-blooded icefishes from the family Channichthyidae. Loss of key elements of the cellular stress response, notably the heat shock response, has also been observed. Along with their attainment of cold tolerance, notothenioids have developed an extreme stenothermy and many species perish at temperatures only a few degrees above their habitat temperatures. Thus, in light of today's rapidly changing climate, it is critical to evaluate how these extreme stenotherms will respond to rising ocean temperatures. It is conceivable that the remarkable cold specialization of notothenioids may ultimately leave them vulnerable to future thermal increases and threaten their fitness and survival. Within this context, our review provides a current summary of the biochemical losses and gains that are known for notothenioids and examines these cold-adapted traits with a focus on processes underlying thermal tolerance and acclimation capacity.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/12/1834


Chum salmon migrating upriver adjust to environmental temperatures through metabolic compensation
Ectotherms adjust their thermal performance to various thermal ranges by altering their metabolic rates. These metabolic adjustments involve plastic and/or genetic traits and pathways depend on species-specific ecological contexts. Chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) are ecologically unique among the Pacific salmonids as early-run and late-run populations are commonly observed in every part of their range. In the Sanriku coastal area, Japan, early-run adults experience high water temperatures (12–24°C) during their migration, compared with those of the late-run adults (4–15°C), suggesting that the two populations might have different thermal performance. Here, we found population-specific differences in the thermal sensitivities of metabolic rates [resting metabolic rate, RMR, and maximum (aerobic) metabolic rate, MMR] and critical temperature maxima. Using these parameters, we estimated thermal performance curves of absolute aerobic scope (AAS). The populations had different thermal performance curves of AAS, and in both populations high values of AAS were maintained throughout the range of ecologically relevant temperatures. However, the populations did not vary substantially in the peak (AAS at optimal temperature, ToptAAS) or breadth (width of sub-optimal temperature range) of the performance curves. The AAS curve of early-run fish was shifted approximately 3°C higher than that of late-run fish. Furthermore, when the data for RMR and MMR were aligned to the thermal differences from ToptAAS, it became clear that the populations did not differ in the temperature dependence of their metabolic traits. Our results indicate that chum salmon thermally accommodate through compensatory alterations in metabolic rates. Our results imply that metabolic plasticity and/or the effect of genetic variance on plasticity might play a pivotal role in their thermal accommodation.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/222/3/jeb186189


Subspecies differences in thermal acclimation of mitochondrial function and the role of uncoupling proteins in killifish
Thermal effects on mitochondrial efficiency and ATP production can influence whole-animal thermal tolerance and performance. Thus, organisms may have the capacity to alter mitochondrial processes through acclimation or adaptation to mitigate these effects. One possible mechanism is through the action of uncoupling proteins (UCPs), which can decrease the proton-motive force independent of the production of ATP. To test this hypothesis, we examined the mRNA expression patterns of UCP isoforms and characterized the effects of thermal acclimation and putative local thermal adaptation on mitochondrial capacity, proton leak and P/O ratios in two subspecies of Atlantic killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus). Ucp1 was the dominant isoform in liver and was more highly expressed in northern killifish. We found that cold acclimation increased mitochondrial capacity (state III and maximum substrate oxidation capacity), state II membrane potential, proton leak and P/O ratios in northern, but not southern, killifish liver mitochondria. Palmitate-induced mitochondrial uncoupling was detected in northern, but not southern, killifish liver mitochondria, consistent with the differences in Ucp mRNA expression between the subspecies. Taken together, our data suggest that mitochondrial function is more plastic in response to thermal acclimation in northern killifish than in southern killifish and that UCP1 may play a role in regulating the proton-motive force in northern, but not southern, killifish in response to thermal acclimation. These data demonstrate the potential for adaptive variation in mitochondrial plasticity in response to cold.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/24/jeb186320


Negligible differences in metabolism and thermal tolerance between diploid and triploid Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar)
The mechanisms that underlie thermal tolerance in aquatic ectotherms remain unresolved. Triploid fish have been reported to exhibit lower thermal tolerance than diploids, offering a potential model organism to better understand the physiological drivers of thermal tolerance. Here, we compared triploid and diploid juvenile Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) in freshwater to investigate the proposed link between aerobic capacity and thermal tolerance. We measured specific growth rates (SGR) and resting (aerobic) metabolic rates (RMR) in freshwater at 3, 7 and 9 weeks of acclimation to 10, 14 and 18°C. Additionally, maximum metabolic rates (MMR) were measured at 3 and 7 weeks of acclimation, and critical thermal maxima (CTmax) were measured at 9 weeks. Mass, SGR and RMR differed between ploidies across all temperatures at the beginning of the acclimation period, but all three metrics were similar across ploidies by week 7. Aerobic scope (MMR–RMR) remained consistent across ploidies, acclimation temperatures and time. At 9 weeks, CTmax was independent of ploidy, but correlated positively with acclimation temperature despite the similar aerobic scope between acclimation groups. Our findings suggest that acute thermal tolerance is not modulated by aerobic scope, and the altered genome of triploid Atlantic salmon does not translate to reduced thermal tolerance of juvenile fish in freshwater.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/5/jeb166975


Hotter nests produce hatchling lizards with lower thermal tolerance
In many regions, the frequency and duration of summer heatwaves is predicted to increase in future. Hotter summers could result in higher temperatures inside lizard nests, potentially exposing embryos to thermally stressful conditions during development. Potentially, developmentally plastic shifts in thermal tolerance could allow lizards to adapt to climate warming. To determine how higher nest temperatures affect the thermal tolerance of hatchling geckos, we incubated eggs of the rock-dwelling velvet gecko, Amalosia lesueurii, at two fluctuating temperature regimes to mimic current nest temperatures (mean 23.2°C, range 10–33°C, ‘cold’) and future nest temperatures (mean 27.0°C, range 14–37°C, ‘hot’). Hatchlings from the hot incubation group hatched 27 days earlier and had a lower critical thermal maximum (CTmax 38.7°C) and a higher critical thermal minimum (CTmin 6.2°C) than hatchlings from cold incubation group (40.2 and 5.7°C, respectively). In the field, hatchlings typically settle under rocks near communal nests. During the hatching period, rock temperatures ranged from 13 to 59°C, and regularly exceeded the CTmax of both hot- and cold-incubated hatchlings. Because rock temperatures were so high, the heat tolerance of lizards had little effect on their ability to exploit rocks as retreat sites. Instead, the timing of hatching dictated whether lizards could exploit rocks as retreat sites; that is, cold-incubated lizards that hatched later encountered less thermally stressful environments than earlier hatching hot-incubated lizards. In conclusion, we found no evidence that CTmax can shift upwards in response to higher incubation temperatures, suggesting that hotter summers may increase the vulnerability of lizards to climate warming.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/12/2159


Seasonal variation in the thermal responses to changing environmental temperature in the world's northernmost land bird
Arctic homeotherms counter challenges at high latitudes using a combination of seasonal adjustments in pelage/plumage, fat deposition and intricate thermoregulatory adaptations. However, there are still gaps in our understanding of their thermal responses to cold, particularly in Arctic birds. Here, we have studied the potential use of local heterothermy (i.e. tissue cooling that can contribute to significantly lower heat loss rate) in Svalbard ptarmigan (Lagopus muta hyperborea) – the world's northernmost land bird. We exposed birds kept under simulated Svalbard photoperiod to low ambient temperatures (Ta; between 0 and −30°C) during three seasons (early winter, late winter, summer), whilst recording resting metabolic rate (RMR), core temperature (Tc) and several cutaneous temperatures. Leg skin temperature varied the most, but still only by up to ∼15°C, whereas body trunk skin temperature changed <1°C when Ta decreased from 0 to −30°C. At the same time, Tc increased by 0.9°C, concomitant with increased RMR. This was probably driven by the triggering of cerebral thermosensors in response to cooling of the poorly insulated head, the skin of which was 5.4°C colder at −30°C than at 0°C. Thermal conductance in winter was higher in yearlings, probably because they were time/resource constrained from acquiring a high-quality plumage and sufficient fat reserves as a result of concomitant body growth. In conclusion, Svalbard ptarmigan do not employ extensive local heterothermy for cold protection but instead rely on efficient thermogenesis combined with excellent body insulation. Hence, cold defence in the world's northernmost land bird is not mechanistically much different from that of its lower latitude relatives.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/1/jeb171124


Effects of both cold and heat stress on the liver of the giant spiny frog (Quasipaa spinosa): stress response and histological changes
Ambient temperature-associated stress can affect normal physiological functions in ectotherms. To assess the effects of cold or heat stress on amphibians, giant spiny frogs (Quasipaa spinosa) were acclimated at 22°C followed by exposure to 5°C or 30°C for 0, 3, 6, 12, 24 and 48 h, respectively. Histological alterations, apoptotic index, generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS), antioxidant activity indices and stress-response gene expression in frog livers were subsequently determined. Results showed that many fat droplets appeared after 12 h of heat stress and the percentage of melanomacrophage centres significantly changed after 48 h at both stress conditions. Furthermore, the mitochondrial ROS levels were elevated in a time-dependent manner up to 6 h and 12 h in the cold and heat stress groups, respectively. The activities of superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and catalase were successively increased with increasing periods of cold or heat exposure, and their gene expression levels showed similar changes in both stress conditions. Most tested heat shock protein (HSP) genes were sensitive to temperature exposure, and the expression profiles of most apoptosis-related genes was significantly upregulated at 3 and 48 h under cold and heat stress, respectively. Apoptotic index at 48 h under cold stress was significantly higher than that under heat stress. Notably, lipid droplets, HSP30, HSP70 and HSP110 might be suitable bioindicators of heat stress. The results of these alterations at physiological, biochemical and molecular levels might contribute to a better understanding of the stress response of Q. spinosa, and perhaps amphibians more generally, under thermal stress.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/21/jeb186379


Heat transfer in fish: are short excursions between habitats a thermoregulatory behaviour to exploit resources in an unfavourable thermal environment?
Temperature is the primary environmental factor affecting physiological processes in ectotherms. Heat-transfer models describe how the fish's internal temperature responds to a fluctuating thermal environment. Specifically, the rate coefficient (k), defined as the instantaneous rate of change in body temperature in relation to the difference between ambient and body temperature, summarizes the combined effects of direct thermal conduction through body mass, passive convection (intracellular and intercellular fluids) and forced convective heat transfer (cardiovascular system). The k-coefficient is widely used in fish ecology to understand how body temperature responds to changes in water temperature. The main objective of this study was to estimate the k-coefficient of brook charr equipped with internal temperature-sensitive transmitters in controlled laboratory experiments. Fish were first transferred from acclimation tanks (10°C) to tanks at 14, 19 or 23°C (warming experiments) and were then returned to the acclimation tanks (10°C; cooling experiments), thus producing six step changes in ambient temperature. We used non-linear mixed models to estimate the k-coefficient. Model comparisons indicated that the model incorporating the k-coefficient as a function of absolute temperature difference (dT: 4, 9 and 13°C) best described body temperature change. By simulating body temperature in a heterogeneous thermal environment, we provide theoretical predictions of maximum excursion duration between feeding and resting areas. Our simulations suggest that short (i.e. <60 min) excursions could be a common thermoregulatory behaviour adopted by cold freshwater fish species to sustain body temperature below a critical temperature threshold, enabling them to exploit resources in an unfavourable thermal environment.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/218/21/3461


Patterns of alternative splicing in response to cold acclimation in fish
Phenotypic plasticity is an important aspect of an organism's response to environmental change that often requires the modulation of gene expression. These changes in gene expression can be quantitative as a result of increases or decreases in the amounts of specific transcripts, or qualitative as a result of the expression of alternative transcripts from the same gene (e.g., via alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs). Although the role of quantitative changes in gene expression in phenotypic plasticity is well known, relatively few studies have examined the role of qualitative changes. Here, we use skeletal muscle RNA-seq data from Atlantic killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus), threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) and zebrafish (Danio rerio) to investigate the extent of qualitative changes in gene expression in response to cold. Fewer genes demonstrated alternative splicing than differential expression as a result of cold acclimation; however, differences in splicing were detected for between 426 and 866 genes depending on species, indicating that large numbers of qualitative changes in gene expression are associated with cold acclimation. Many of these alternatively spliced genes were also differentially expressed, and there was functional enrichment for involvement in muscle contraction among the genes demonstrating qualitative changes in response to cold acclimation. Additionally, there was a common group of 29 genes with cold-acclimation-mediated changes in splicing in all three species, suggesting that there may be a set of genes with expression patterns that respond qualitatively to prolonged cold temperatures across fishes.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/early/2019/01/25/jeb.193516


Cold tolerance of Drosophila species is tightly linked to the epithelial K+ transport capacity of the Malpighian tubules and rectal pads
Insect chill tolerance is strongly associated with the ability to maintain ion and water homeostasis during cold exposure. Maintenance of K+ balance is particularly important due to its role in setting the cell membrane potential that is involved in many aspects of cellular function and viability. In most insects, K+ balance is maintained through secretion at the Malpighian tubules, which balances reabsorption from the hindgut and passive leak arising from the gut lumen. Here, we used the scanning ion-selective electrode technique (SIET) at benign (23°C) and low (6°C) temperatures to examine K+ flux across the Malpighian tubules and the rectal pads in the hindgut in five Drosophila species that differ in cold tolerance. We found that chill-tolerant species were better at maintaining K+ secretion and suppressing reabsorption during cold exposure. In contrast, chill-susceptible species exhibited large reductions in secretion with no change, or a paradoxical increase, in K+ reabsorption. Using an assay to measure paracellular leak, we found that chill-susceptible species experience a large increase in leak during cold exposure, which could explain the apparent increase in K+ reabsorption found in these species. Our data therefore strongly support the hypothesis that cold-tolerant Drosophila species are better at maintaining K+ homeostasis through an increased ability to maintain K+ secretion rates and through reduced movement of K+ towards the hemolymph. These adaptations are manifested both at the Malpighian tubule and at the rectal pads in the hindgut, and ensure that cold-tolerant species experience less perturbation of K+ homeostasis during cold stress.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/22/4261


Thermal strategies vary with life history stage
With both global surface temperatures and the incidence and intensity of extreme temperature events projected to increase, the assessment of species' sensitivity to chronic and acute changes in temperature has become crucial. Sensitivity predictions are based predominantly on adult responses, despite the fact that early life stages may be more vulnerable to thermal challenge. Here, we compared the sensitivity of different life history stages of the intertidal gastropod Littorina obtusata using thermal death time curves, which incorporate the intensity and duration of heat stress, and used these to calculate upper critical thermal limits (CTmax) and sensitivity to temperature change (z). Early (larval) life stages had both a lower CTmax and a lower z than adults, suggesting they are less good at withstanding short-term extreme thermal challenges but better able to survive moderate temperatures in the long term. This result supports the predicted trade-off between acute and chronic tolerance to thermal stress, and is consistent with the different thermal challenges that these stages encounter in the intertidal zone. We conclude that different life history stages employ different thermal strategies that may be adaptive. Our findings caution against the use of predictions of the impact of global warming that are based on only adult responses and, hence, which may underestimate vulnerability.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/8/jeb171629


Critical thermal limits affected differently by developmental and adult thermal fluctuations
Means and variances of the environmental thermal regime play an important role in determining the fitness of terrestrial ectotherms. Adaptive phenotypic responses induced by heterogeneous temperatures have been shown to be mediated by molecular pathways independent of the classic heat shock responses; however, an in-depth understanding of plasticity induced by fluctuating temperatures is still lacking. We investigated high and low temperature acclimation induced by fluctuating thermal regimes at two different mean temperatures, at two different amplitudes of fluctuation and across the developmental and adult life stages of Drosophila melanogaster. For developmental acclimation, we found mildly detrimental effects of high-amplitude fluctuations for critical thermal minima, while the critical thermal maxima showed a beneficial response to higher amplitude fluctuations. For adult acclimation involving shifts between fluctuating and constant regimes, cold tolerance was shown to be dictated by developmental temperature conditions irrespective of the adult treatments, while the acquired heat tolerance was readily lost when flies developed at fluctuating temperature were shifted to a constant regime as adults. Interestingly, we also found that the effect of fluctuations at any life stage was gradually lost with prolonged adult maintenance, suggesting a more prominent effect of fluctuations during developmental compared with adult acclimation in D. melanogaster.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/23/4471


Thermal acclimation and subspecies-specific effects on heart and brain mitochondrial performance in a eurythermal teleost (Fundulus heteroclitus)
Mitochondrial performance may play a role in setting whole-animal thermal tolerance limits and their plasticity, but the relative roles of adjustments in mitochondrial performance across different highly aerobic tissues remain poorly understood. We compared heart and brain mitochondrial responses to acute thermal challenges and to thermal acclimation using high-resolution respirometry in two locally adapted subspecies of Atlantic killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus). We predicted that 5°C acclimation would result in compensatory increases in mitochondrial performance, while 33°C acclimation would cause suppression of mitochondrial function to minimize the effects of high temperature on mitochondrial metabolism. In contrast, acclimation to both 33 and 5°C decreased mitochondrial performance compared with fish acclimated to 15°C. These adjustments could represent an energetic cost-saving mechanism at temperature extremes. Acclimation responses were similar in both heart and brain; however, this effect was smaller in the heart, which might indicate its importance in maintaining whole-animal thermal performance. Alternatively, larger acclimation effects in the brain might indicate greater thermal sensitivity compared with the heart. We detected only modest differences between subspecies that were dependent on the tissue assayed. These data demonstrate extensive plasticity in mitochondrial performance following thermal acclimation in killifish, and indicate that the extent of these responses differs between tissues, highlighting the importance and complexity of mitochondrial regulation in thermal acclimation in eurytherms.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/8/1459


High-frequency temperature variability mirrors fixed differences in thermal limits of the massive coral Porites lobata
Spatial heterogeneity in environmental characteristics can drive adaptive differentiation when contrasting environments exert divergent selection pressures. This environmental and genetic heterogeneity can substantially influence population and community resilience to disturbance events. Here, we investigated corals from the highly variable back-reef habitats of Ofu Island in American Samoa that thrive in thermal conditions known to elicit widespread bleaching and mortality elsewhere. To investigate the relative importance of acclimation versus site of origin in shaping previously observed differences in coral tolerance limits at Ofu Island, specimens of the common Indo-Pacific coral Porites lobata from locations with differing levels of thermal variability were acclimated to low and high thermal variation in controlled common garden aquaria. Overall, there were minimal effects of the acclimation exposure. Corals native to the site with the highest level of daily variability grew fastest, regardless of acclimation treatment. When exposed to lethal thermal stress, corals native to both variable sites contained elevated levels of heat shock proteins and maintained photosynthetic performance for 1–2 days longer than corals from the stable environment. Despite being separated by <5 km, there was significant genetic differentiation among coral colonies (FST=0.206, P<0.0001; nuclear ribosomal DNA), whereas Symbiodiniaceae were all Cladocopium sp. (ITS type C15). Our study demonstrates consistent signatures of adaptation in growth and stress resistance in corals from naturally thermally variable habitats, suggesting that differences in the amount of thermal variability may be an important contributor to adaptive differentiation in reef-building corals.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/24/jeb188581


Life on the edge: O2 binding in Atlantic cod red blood cells near their southern distribution limit is not sensitive to temperature or haemoglobin genotype
Atlantic cod are a commercially important species believed to be threatened by warming seas near their southern, equatorward upper thermal edge of distribution. Limitations to circulatory O2 transport, in particular cardiac output, and the geographic distribution of functionally different haemoglobin (Hb) genotypes have separately been suggested to play a role in setting thermal tolerance in this species. The present study assessed the thermal sensitivity of O2 binding in Atlantic cod red blood cells with different Hb genotypes near their upper thermal distribution limit and modelled its consequences for the arterio-venous O2 saturation difference, Sa–vO2, another major determinant of circulatory O2 supply rate. The results showed statistically indistinguishable red blood cell O2 binding between the three HbI genotypes in wild-caught Atlantic cod from the Irish Sea (53° N). Red blood cells had an unusually low O2 affinity, with reduced or even reversed thermal sensitivity between pH 7.4 and 7.9, and 5.0 and 20.0°C. This was paired with strongly pH-dependent affinity and cooperativity of red blood cell O2 binding (Bohr and Root effects). Modelling of Sa–vO2 at physiological pH, temperature and O2 partial pressures revealed a substantial capacity for increases in Sa–vO2 to meet rising tissue O2 demands at 5.0 and 12.5°C, but not at 20°C. Furthermore, there was no evidence for an increase of maximal Sa–vO2 with temperature. It is suggested that Atlantic cod at such high temperatures may solely depend on increases in cardiac output and blood O2 capacity, or thermal acclimatisation of metabolic rate, for matching circulatory O2 supply to tissue demand.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/3/414


Avian thermoregulation in the heat: is evaporative cooling more economical in nocturnal birds?
Evaporative cooling is a prerequisite for avian occupancy of hot, arid environments, and is the only avenue of heat dissipation when air temperatures (Ta) exceed body temperature (Tb). Whereas diurnal birds can potentially rehydrate throughout the day, nocturnal species typically forgo drinking between sunrise and sunset. We hypothesized that nocturnal birds have evolved reduced rates of evaporative water loss (EWL) and more economical evaporative cooling mechanisms compared with diurnal species, permitting nocturnal species to tolerate extended periods of intense heat without becoming lethally dehydrated. We used phylogenetically informed regressions to compare EWL and evaporative cooling efficiency [ratio of evaporative heat loss (EHL) and metabolic heat production (MHP); EHL/MHP] among nocturnal and diurnal birds at high Ta. We analyzed variation in three response variables: (1) slope of EWL at Ta between 40 and 46°C, (2) EWL at Ta=46°C and (3) EHL/MHP at Ta=46°C. Nocturnality emerged as a weak, negative predictor, with nocturnal species having slightly shallower slopes and reduced EWL compared with diurnal species of similar mass. In contrast, nocturnal activity was positively correlated with EHL/MHP, indicating a greater capacity for evaporative cooling in nocturnal birds. However, our analysis also revealed conspicuous differences among nocturnal taxa. Caprimulgids and Australian owlet-nightjars had shallower slopes and reduced EWL compared with similarly sized diurnal species, whereas owls had EWL rates comparable to those of diurnal species. Consequently, our results did not unequivocally demonstrate more economical cooling among nocturnal birds. Owls predominately select refugia with cooler microclimates, but the more frequent and intense heat waves forecast for the 21st century may increase microclimate temperatures and the necessity for active heat dissipation, potentially increasing owls' vulnerability to dehydration and hyperthermia.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/17/jeb181420


Seasonal and geographical variation in heat tolerance and evaporative cooling capacity in a passerine bird
Intraspecific variation in avian thermoregulatory responses to heat stress has received little attention, despite increasing evidence that endothermic animals show considerable physiological variation among populations. We investigated seasonal (summer versus winter) variation in heat tolerance and evaporative cooling in an Afrotropical ploceid passerine, the white-browed sparrow-weaver (Plocepasser mahali; ∼47 g) at three sites along a climatic gradient with more than 10°C variation in mid-summer maximum air temperature (Ta). We measured resting metabolic rate (RMR) and total evaporative water loss (TEWL) using open flow-through respirometry, and core body temperature (Tb) using passive integrated transponder tags. Sparrow-weavers were exposed to a ramped profile of progressively higher Ta between 30 and 52°C to elicit maximum evaporative cooling capacity (N=10 per site per season); the maximum Ta birds tolerated before the onset of severe hyperthermia (Tb≈44°C) was considered to be their hyperthermia threshold Ta (Ta,HT). Our data reveal significant seasonal acclimatisation of heat tolerance, with a desert population of sparrow-weavers reaching significantly higher Ta in summer (49.5±1.4°C, i.e. higher Ta,HT) than in winter (46.8±0.9°C), reflecting enhanced evaporative cooling during summer. Moreover, desert sparrow-weavers had significantly higher heat tolerance and evaporative cooling capacity during summer compared with populations from more mesic sites (Ta,HT=47.3±1.5 and 47.6±1.3°C). A better understanding of the contributions of local adaptation versus phenotypic plasticity to intraspecific variation in avian heat tolerance and evaporative cooling capacity is needed for modelling species' responses to changing climates.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/6/859


Cold tolerance is linked to osmoregulatory function of the hindgut in Locusta migratoria
There is growing evidence that maintenance of ion and water balance determines cold tolerance in many insects. The hindgut of terrestrial insects is critical for maintaining organismal homeostasis as it regulates solute and water balance of the haemolymph. Here, we used ex vivo everted gut sacs of Locusta migratoria to examine the effects of temperature (0–30°C), thermal acclimation, hypoxia, and ionic and osmotic forces on bulk water and ion (Na+, K+ and Cl−) movement across the rectal epithelium. These findings were related to simultaneous in vivo measurements of water and ion balance in locusts exposed to similar temperatures. As predicted, we observed a critical inhibition of net water and ion reabsorption at low temperature that was proportional to the in vivo loss of water and ion homeostasis. Further, cold-acclimated locusts, which are known to defend ion and water balance at low temperature, were characterised by improved reabsorptive capacity at low temperature. These findings strongly support the hypothesis that transport mechanisms in the hindgut at low temperature are essential for cold tolerance. The loss of osmoregulatory capacity at low temperature was primarily caused by reduced active transport, while rectal paracellular permeability to fluorescein isothiocyanate dextran was unchanged at 0 and 30°C. During cold exposure, water reabsorption was independent of major cation gradients across the epithelia, while a reduction in mucosal Cl− availability and an increase in mucosal osmolality markedly depressed water reabsorption. These findings are discussed in the context of existing knowledge and with suggestions for future physiological studies on cold acclimation and adaptation in insects.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/5/jeb173930


Sperm pre-fertilization thermal environment shapes offspring phenotype and performance
The sperm pre-fertilization environment has recently been suggested to mediate remarkable transgenerational consequences for offspring phenotype (transgenerational plasticity, TGB), but the adaptive significance of the process has remained unclear. Here, we studied the transgenerational effects of sperm pre-fertilization thermal environment in a cold-adapted salmonid, the European whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus). We used a full-factorial breeding design where the eggs of five females were fertilized with the milt of 10 males that had been pre-incubated at two different temperatures (3.5°C and 6.5°C) for 15 h prior to fertilization. Thermal manipulation did not affect sperm motility, cell size, fertilization success or embryo mortality. However, offspring that were fertilized with 6.5°C-exposed milt were smaller and had poorer swimming performance than their full-siblings that had been fertilized with the 3.5°C-exposed milt. Furthermore, the effect of milt treatment on embryo mortality varied among different females (treatment×female interaction) and male–female combinations (treatment×female×male interaction). Together, these results indicate that sperm pre-fertilization thermal environment shapes offspring phenotype and post-hatching performance and modifies both the magnitude of female (dam) effects and the compatibility of the gametes. Generally, our results suggest that short-term changes in sperm thermal conditions may have negative impact for offspring fitness. Thus, sperm thermal environment may have an important role in determining the adaptation potential of organisms to climate change. Detailed mechanism(s) behind our findings require further attention.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/20/jeb181412


Vultures respond to challenges of near-ground thermal soaring by varying bank angle
Many large birds rely on thermal soaring flight to travel cross-country. As such, they are under selective pressure to minimise the time spent gaining altitude in thermal updrafts. Birds should be able to maximise their climb rates by maintaining a position close to the thermal core through careful selection of bank angle and airspeed; however, there have been few direct measurements of either parameter. Here, we apply a novel methodology to quantify the bank angles selected by soaring birds using on-board magnetometers. We couple these data with airspeed measurements to parameterise the soaring envelope of two species of Gyps vulture, from which it is possible to predict ‘optimal’ bank angles. Our results show that these large birds respond to the challenges of gaining altitude in the initial phase of the climb, where thermal updrafts are weak and narrow, by adopting relatively high, and conserved, bank angles (25–35 deg). The bank angle decreased with increasing altitude, in a manner that was broadly consistent with a strategy of maximising the rate of climb. However, the lift coefficients estimated in our study were lower than those predicted by theoretical models and wind-tunnel studies. Overall, our results highlight how the relevant currency for soaring performance changes within individual climbs: when thermal radius is limiting, birds vary bank angle and maintain a constant airspeed, but speed increases later in the climb in order to respond to decreasing air density.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/23/jeb174995


Reduced thermal tolerance during salinity acclimation in brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) can be rescued by prior treatment with cortisol
The aims of this study were to assess whether thermal tolerance of brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) is affected during seawater (SW) acclimation and to investigate the role of cortisol in osmoregulation and thermal tolerance during SW acclimation. Freshwater (FW)-acclimated brook trout at 18°C (Tacc) were exposed to SW for 16 days, whilst maintaining a FW control. Fish were examined for critical thermal maximum (CTmax) 0 (before), 2, 5 and 16 days after SW exposure, and sampled at Tacc and CTmax for analysis of plasma cortisol, glucose and Cl−, gill Na+/K+-ATPase (NKA) activity and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) abundance, and white muscle water content. At 2 days in SW, CTmax was significantly reduced (from 31 to 26°C), and then recovered by 16 days. This transient decrease in thermal tolerance coincided with a transient increase in plasma Cl− and decrease in muscle moisture content. Salinity itself had no effect on gill HSP70 abundance compared with the large and immediate effects of high temperature exposure during CTmax testing. To examine the role of cortisol in osmoregulation, brook trout were administered a cortisol implant (5 and 25 μg g−1 CORT) prior to SW exposure. Both CORT doses significantly increased their capacity to maintain plasma Cl− during SW acclimation. Treatment with the 25 μg g−1 CORT dose was shown to significantly improve CTmax after 2 days in SW, and CTmax was associated with plasma Cl− and muscle moisture content. These findings indicate that brook trout are sensitive to temperature during SW acclimation and that thermal tolerance is associated with ion and water balance during SW acclimation.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/6/jeb169557


Maximum thermal limits of coral reef damselfishes are size dependent and resilient to near-future ocean acidification
Theoretical models predict that ocean acidification, caused by increased dissolved CO2, will reduce the maximum thermal limits of fishes, thereby increasing their vulnerability to rising ocean temperatures and transient heatwaves. Here, we tested this prediction in three species of damselfishes on the Great Barrier Reef, Australia. Maximum thermal limits were quantified using critical thermal maxima (CTmax) tests following acclimation to either present-day or end-of-century levels of CO2 for coral reef environments (∼500 or ∼1000 µatm, respectively). While species differed significantly in their thermal limits, whereby Dischistodus perspicillatus exhibited greater CTmax (37.88±0.03°C; N=47) than Dascyllus aruanus (37.68±0.02°C; N=85) and Acanthochromis polyacanthus (36.58±0.02°C; N=63), end-of-century CO2 had no effect (D. aruanus) or a slightly positive effect (increase in CTmax of 0.16°C in D. perspicillatus and 0.21°C in A. polyacanthus) on CTmax. Contrary to expectations, early-stage juveniles were equally as resilient to CO2 as larger conspecifics, and CTmax was higher at smaller body sizes in two species. These findings suggest that ocean acidification will not impair the maximum thermal limits of reef fishes, and they highlight the critical role of experimental biology in testing predictions of theoretical models forecasting the consequences of environmental change.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/19/3519


Economic thermoregulatory response explains mismatch between thermal physiology and behaviour in newts
Temperature is an important factor determining distribution and abundance of organisms. Predicting the impact of warming climate on ectotherm populations requires information about species' thermal requirements, i.e. their so-called ‘thermal niche’. The characterization of thermal niche remains a complicated task. We compared the applicability of two indirect approaches, based on reaction norm (aerobic scope curve) and optimality (preferred body temperature) concepts, for indirect estimation of thermal niche while using newts, Ichthyosaura alpestris, as a study system. If the two approaches are linked, then digesting newts should keep their body temperatures close to values maximizing aerobic scope for digestion. After feeding, newts maintained their body temperatures within a narrower range than did hungry individuals. The range of preferred body temperatures was well below the temperature maximizing aerobic scope for digestion. Optimal temperatures for factorial aerobic scope fell within the preferred body temperature range of digesting individuals. We conclude that digesting newts prefer body temperatures that are optimal for the maximum aerobic performance but relative to the maintenance costs. What might be termed the ‘economic’ thermoregulatory response explains the mismatch between thermal physiology and behaviour in this system.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/6/1106


Sperm in hot water: direct and indirect thermal challenges interact to impact on brown trout sperm quality
Climate change alters the thermal habitat of aquatic species on a global scale, generating novel environmental challenges during all life stages, including reproduction. Changes in water temperature profoundly influence the performance of ectothermic aquatic organisms. This is an especially crucial issue for migratory fish, because they traverse multiple environments in order to reproduce. In externally fertilizing migratory fish, gametes are affected by water temperature indirectly, within the reproductive organ in which they are produced during migration, as well as directly, upon release into the surrounding medium at the spawning grounds. Both direct (after release) and indirect (during production) thermal impacts on gamete quality have been investigated, but never in conjunction. Here, we assessed the cumulative influence of temperature on brown trout, Salmo trutta, sperm quality during sperm production (male acclimation temperature) as well as upon release (sperm activation water temperature) on two consecutive dates during the brown trout spawning season. Early in the season, warm acclimation of males reduced their fertilization probability (lower sperm velocity) when compared with cold-acclimated males, especially when the activation water temperature was also increased beyond the thermal optimum (resulting in a lower proportion of motile sperm with lower velocity). Later in the season, sperm quality was unaffected by acclimation temperature and thermal sensitivity of sperm was reduced. These results give novel insights into the complex impacts of climate change on fish sperm, with implications for the reproduction and management of hatchery and wild trout populations in future climate scenarios.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/14/2513


Specialist–generalist model of body temperature regulation can be applied at the intraspecific level
According to theoretical predictions, endothermic homeotherms can be classified as either thermal specialists or thermal generalists. In high cost environments, thermal specialists are supposed to be more prone to using facultative heterothermy than generalists. We tested this hypothesis at the intraspecific level using male laboratory mice (C57BL/cmdb) fasted under different thermal conditions (20 and 10°C) and for different time periods (12–48 h). We predicted that variability of body temperature (Tb) and time spent with Tb below normothermy would increase with the increase of environmental demands (duration of fasting and cold). To verify the above prediction, we measured Tb and energy expenditure of fasted mice. We did not record torpor bouts but we found that variations in Tb and time spent in hypothermia increased with environmental demands. In response to fasting, mice also decreased their energy expenditure. Moreover, animals that showed more precise thermoregulation when fed had more variable Tb when fasted. We postulate that the prediction of the thermoregulatory generalist–specialist trade-off can be applied at the intraspecific level, offering a valid tool for identifying mechanistic explanations of the differences in animal responses to variations in energy supply.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/13/2380


Maternal loading of a small heat shock protein increases embryo thermal tolerance in Drosophila melanogaster
Maternal investment is likely to have direct effects on offspring survival. In oviparous animals whose embryos are exposed to the external environment, maternal provisioning of molecular factors like mRNAs and proteins may help embryos cope with sudden changes in the environment. Here, we sought to modify the maternal mRNA contribution to offspring embryos and test for maternal effects on acute thermal tolerance in early embryos of Drosophila melanogaster. We drove in vivo overexpression of a small heat shock protein gene (Hsp23) in female ovaries and measured the effects of acute thermal stress on offspring embryonic survival and larval development. We report that overexpression of the Hsp23 gene in female ovaries produced offspring embryos with increased thermal tolerance. We also found that brief heat stress in the early embryonic stage (0–1 h old) caused decreased larval performance later in life (5–10 days old), as indexed by pupation height. Maternal overexpression of Hsp23 protected embryos against this heat-induced defect in larval performance. Our data demonstrate that transient products of single genes have large and lasting effects on whole-organism environmental tolerance. Further, our results suggest that maternal effects have a profound impact on offspring survival in the context of thermal variability.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/23/4492


Avian thermoregulation in the heat: evaporative cooling capacity of arid-zone Caprimulgiformes from two continents
Birds in the order Caprimulgiformes (nightjars and allies) have a remarkable capacity for thermoregulation over a wide range of environmental temperatures, exhibiting pronounced heterothermy in cool conditions and extreme heat tolerance at high environmental temperatures. We measured thermoregulatory responses to acute heat stress in three species of Caprimulgiformes that nest in areas of extreme heat and aridity, the common poorwill (Phalaenoptilus nuttallii: Caprimulgidae) and lesser nighthawk (Chordeiles acutipennis: Caprimulgidae) in the Sonoran Desert of Arizona, and the Australian owlet-nightjar (Aegotheles cristatus: Aegothelidae) in the mallee woodlands of South Australia. We exposed wild-caught birds to progressively increasing air temperatures (Ta) and measured resting metabolic rate (RMR), evaporative water loss (EWL), body temperature (Tb) and heat tolerance limit (HTL; the maximum Ta reached). Comparatively low RMR values were observed in all species (0.35, 0.36 and 0.40 W for the poorwill, nighthawk and owlet-nightjar, respectively), with Tb approximating Ta at 40°C and mild hyperthermia occurring as Ta reached the HTL. Nighthawks and poorwills reached HTLs of 60 and 62°C, respectively, whereas the owlet-nightjar had a HTL of 52°C. RMR increased gradually above minima at Ta of 42, 42 and 35°C, and reached 1.7, 1.9 and 2.0 times minimum resting values at HTLs in the poorwill, nighthawk and owlet-nightjar, respectively. EWL increased rapidly and linearly as Ta exceeded Tb and resulted in maximum rates of evaporative heat dissipation equivalent to 237–424% of metabolic heat production. Bouts of gular flutter resulted in large transient increases in evaporative heat loss (50–123%) accompanied by only small increments in RMR (<5%). The cavity-nesting/roosting owlet-nightjar had a lower HTL and less efficient evaporative cooling compared with the species that nest and/or roost on open desert surfaces. The high efficiency of gular flutter for evaporative cooling, combined with mild hyperthermia, provides the physiological basis for defending Tb well below Ta in extreme heat and is comparable to the efficient cooling observed in arid-zone columbids in which cutaneous EWL is the predominant cooling pathway.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/220/19/3488


Effect of body mass and melanism on heat balance in Liolaemus lizards of the goetschi clade
The body temperature of ectotherms depends on the environmental temperatures and behavioral adjustments, but morphology may also have an effect. For example, in colder environments, animals tend to be larger and to show higher thermal inertia, as proposed by Bergmann's rule and the heat balance hypothesis (HBH). Additionally, dark coloration increases solar radiation absorption and should accelerate heat gain (thermal melanism hypothesis, TMH). We tested Bergmann's rule, the HBH and the TMH within the Liolaemus goetschi lizard clade, which shows variability in body size and melanic coloration. We measured heating and cooling rates of live and euthanized animals, and tested how morphology and color affect these rates. Live organisms show less variable and faster heating rates compared with cooling rates, suggesting behavioral and/or physiological adjustments. Our results support Bergmann's rule and the HBH, as larger species show slower heating and cooling rates. However, we did not find a clear pattern to support the TMH. The influence of dorsal melanism on heating by radiation was masked by the body size effect in live animals, and results from euthanized individuals also showed no clear effects of melanism on heating rates. Comparison among three groups of live individuals with different degrees of melanism did not clarify the influence of melanism on heating rates. However, when euthanized animals from the same three groups were compared, we observed that darker euthanized animals actually heat faster than lighter ones, favoring the TMH. Although unresolved aspects remain, body size and coloration influenced heat exchange, suggesting complex thermoregulatory strategies in these lizards, probably regulated through physiology and behavior, which may allow these small lizards to inhabit harsh weather environments.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/219/8/1162


Insect fat body cell morphology and response to cold stress is modulated by acclimation
Mechanistic understanding about the nature of cellular cryoinjury and mechanisms by which some animals survive freezing while others do not is currently lacking. Here, we exploited the broadly manipulable freeze tolerance of larval malt flies (Chymomyza costata) to uncover cell and tissue morphological changes associated with freeze mortality. Diapause induction, cold acclimation and dietary proline supplementation generate malt fly variants ranging from weakly to extremely freeze tolerant. Using confocal microscopy and immunostaining of the fat body, Malpighian tubules and anterior midgut, we described tissue and cytoskeletal (F-actin and α-tubulin) morphologies among these variants after exposure to various cold stresses (from chilling at −5°C to extreme freezing at −196°C), and upon recovery from cold exposure. Fat body tissue appeared to be the most susceptible to cryoinjury: freezing caused coalescence of lipid droplets, loss of α-tubulin structure and apparent aggregation of F-actin. A combination of diapause and cold acclimation substantially lowered the temperature at which these morphological disruptions occurred. Larvae that recovered from a freezing challenge repaired F-actin aggregation but not lipid droplet coalescence or α-tubulin structure. Our observations indicate that lipid coalescence and damage to α-tubulin are non-lethal forms of freeze injury, and suggest that repair or removal (rather than protection) of actin proteins is a potential mechanism of acquired freeze tolerance.

http://jeb.biologists.org/content/221/21/jeb189647


