Phylogeny, environment and sexual communication across the Drosophila genus
Social behaviour emerges from the local environment but is constrained by the animal's life history and its evolutionary lineage. In this perspective, we consider the genus Drosophila and provide an overview of how these constraints can shape how individuals interact. Our focus is restricted to visual and chemical signals and how their use varies across species during courtship – currently the only social behaviour well-studied across many Drosophila species. We broadly categorize species into four climatic groups – cosmopolitan, tropical, temperate and arid – which serve as discussion points as we review comparative behavioural and physiological studies and relate them to the abiotic conditions of a species environment. We discuss how the physiological and behavioural differences among many fly species may reflect life history differences as much as, or even more than, differences in phylogeny. This perspective serves not only to summarize what has been studied across drosophilids, but also to identify questions and outline gaps in the literature worth pursuing for progressing the understanding of behavioural evolution in Drosophila.


Genetic conflicts: the usual suspects and beyond
Selfishness is pervasive and manifests at all scales of biology, from societies, to individuals, to genetic elements within a genome. The relentless struggle to seek evolutionary advantages drives perpetual cycles of adaptation and counter-adaptation, commonly referred to as Red Queen interactions. In this review, we explore insights gleaned from molecular and genetic studies of such genetic conflicts, both extrinsic (between genomes) and intrinsic (within genomes or cells). We argue that many different characteristics of selfish genetic elements can be distilled into two types of advantages: an over-replication advantage (e.g. mobile genetic elements in genomes) and a transmission distortion advantage (e.g. meiotic drivers in populations). These two general categories may help classify disparate types of selfish genetic elements.


The ecology and evolution of social behavior in microbes
Cooperation has been studied extensively across the tree of life, from eusociality in insects to social behavior in humans, but it is only recently that a social dimension has been recognized and extensively explored for microbes. Research into microbial cooperation has accelerated dramatically and microbes have become a favorite system because of their fast evolution, their convenience as lab study systems and the opportunity for molecular investigations. However, the study of microbes also poses significant challenges, such as a lack of knowledge and an inaccessibility of the ecological context (used here to include both the abiotic and the biotic environment) under which the trait deemed cooperative has evolved and is maintained. I review the experimental and theoretical evidence in support of the limitations of the study of social behavior in microbes in the absence of an ecological context. I discuss both the need and the opportunities for experimental investigations that can inform a theoretical framework able to reframe the general questions of social behavior in a clear ecological context and to account for eco-evolutionary feedback.


Correlations of metabolic rate and body acceleration in three species of coastal sharks under contrasting temperature regimes
The ability to produce estimates of the metabolic rate of free-ranging animals is fundamental to the study of their ecology. However, measuring the energy expenditure of animals in the field has proved difficult, especially for aquatic taxa. Accelerometry presents a means of translating metabolic rates measured in the laboratory to individuals studied in the field, pending appropriate laboratory calibrations. Such calibrations have only been performed on a few fish species to date, and only one where the effects of temperature were accounted for. Here, we present calibrations between activity, measured as overall dynamic body acceleration (ODBA), and metabolic rate, measured through respirometry, for nurse sharks (Ginglymostoma cirratum), lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris) and blacktip sharks (Carcharhinus limbatus). Calibrations were made at a range of volitional swimming speeds and experimental temperatures. Linear mixed models were used to determine a predictive equation for metabolic rate based on measured ODBA values, with the optimal model using ODBA in combination with activity state and temperature to predict metabolic rate in lemon and nurse sharks, and ODBA and temperature to predict metabolic rate in blacktip sharks. This study lays the groundwork for calculating the metabolic rate of these species in the wild using acceleration data.


Thermal spikes from the urban heat island increase mortality and alter physiology of lizard embryos
Effects of global change (i.e. urbanization, climate change) on adult organisms are readily used to predict the persistence of populations. However, effects on embryo survival and patterns of development are less studied, even though embryos are particularly sensitive to abiotic conditions that are altered by global change (e.g. temperature). In reptiles, relatively warm incubation temperatures increase developmental rate and often enhance fitness-relevant phenotypes, but extremely high temperatures cause death. Due to the urban heat island effect, human-altered habitats (i.e. cities) potentially create unusually warm nest conditions that differ from adjacent natural areas in both mean and extreme temperatures. Such variation may exert selection pressures on embryos. To address this, we measured soil temperatures in places where the Puerto Rican crested anole lizard (Anolis cristatellus) nests in both city and forest habitats. We bred anoles in the laboratory and subjected their eggs to five incubation treatments that mimicked temperature regimes from the field, three of which included brief exposure to extremely high temperatures (i.e. thermal spikes) measured in the city. We monitored growth and survival of hatchlings in the laboratory for 3 months and found that warmer, city temperatures increase developmental rate, but brief, thermal spikes reduce survival. Hatchling growth and survival were unaffected by incubation treatment. The urban landscape can potentially create selection pressures that influence organisms at early (e.g. embryo) and late life stages. Thus, research aimed at quantifying the impacts of urbanization on wildlife populations must include multiple life stages to gain a comprehensive understanding of this important aspect of global change.


Repeated freezing induces a trade-off between cryoprotection and egg production in the goldenrod gall fly, Eurosta solidaginis
Internal ice formation leads to wholesale changes in ionic, osmotic and pH homeostasis, energy metabolism, and mechanical damage, across a small range of temperatures, and is thus an abiotic stressor that acts at a distinct, physiologically-relevant, threshold. Insects that experience repeated freeze-thaw cycles over winter will cross this stressor threshold many times over their lifespan. Here we examine the effect of repeatedly crossing the freezing threshold on short-term physiological parameters (metabolic reserves and cryoprotectant concentration) as well as long-term fitness-related performance (survival and egg production) in the freeze-tolerant goldenrod gall fly Eurosta solidaginis. We exposed overwintering prepupae to a series of low temperatures (-10, -15, or -20 °C) with increasing numbers of freezing events (3, 6, or 10) with differing recovery periods between events (1, 5, or 10 days). Repeated freezing increased sorbitol concentration by about 50% relative to a single freezing episode, and prompted prepupae to modify long chain triacylglycerols to acetylated triacylglycerols. Long-term, repeated freezing did not significantly reduce survival, but did reduce egg production by 9.8% relative to a single freezing event. Exposure temperature did not affect any of these measures, suggesting that threshold crossing events may be more important to fitness than the intensity of stress in E. solidaginis overwintering.


Why do models of insect respiratory patterns fail?
Insects exchange respiratory gases using an astonishing diversity of patterns. Of these, discontinuous gas exchange cycles (DGCs) have received the most study, but there are many other patterns exhibited intraspecifically and interspecifically. Moreover, some individual insects transition between patterns based on poorly understood combinations of internal and external factors. Why have biologists failed, so far, to develop a framework capable of explaining this diversity? Here, we propose two answers. The first is that the framework will have to be simultaneously general and highly detailed. It should describe, in a universal way, the physical and chemical processes that any insect uses to exchange gases through the respiratory system (i.e. tracheal tubes and spiracles) while simultaneously containing enough morphological, physiological and neural detail that it captures the specifics of patterns exhibited by any species or individual. The second difficulty is that the framework will have to provide ultimate, evolutionary explanations for why patterns vary within and among insects as well as proximate physiological explanations for how different parts of the respiratory system are modified to produce that diversity. Although biologists have made significant progress on all of these problems individually, there has been little integration among approaches. We propose that renewed efforts be undertaken to integrate across levels and approaches with the goal of developing a new class of general, flexible models capable of explaining a greater fraction of the observed diversity of respiratory patterns.


Potential trade-offs between biomineralization and immunity revealed by shell properties and gene expression profiles of two closely related Crassostrea species
Species of Ostreidae family are key ecosystem engineers and many of them (including Crassostrea gigas and C. virginica) are commercially important aquaculture species. Despite similarities in their morphology and ecology, these two species differ in their ability to defend against pathogens potentially reflecting species-specific differential specialization of hemocytes on immune defense vs. biomineralization. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the expression levels of immune and biomineralization-related genes as well as mineralogical and mechanical properties of the shells and the calcium sequestration ability of the hemocytes of C. gigas and C. virginica. The expression of biomineralization related genes was higher in C. virginica than in C. gigas in multiple tissues including mantle edge and hemocytes, while the expression of immune genes was higher in the hemocytes of C. gigas. Hemocytes of C. virginica contained more calcium (stored intracellularly as calcium carbonate mineral) compared with those of C. gigas. Analysis of the adult shells showed that the crystallinity of calcite was higher and the laths of the foliated layer of the shell were thicker in C. virginica than in C. gigas. Mechanically the shells of C. virginica were stiffer, harder and stronger than those of C. gigas. Taken together, our results show that the species-specific differences in physiology (such as disease resistance and exoskeleton properties) are reflected at the cellular and molecular levels in differential specialization of hemocytes on potentially competing functions (immunity and biomineralization) as well as different expression profiles of other tissues involved in biomineralization (such as the mantle edge).


Developmental phenotypic plasticity helps bridge stochastic weather events associated with climate change
The slow, inexorable rise in annual average global temperatures and acidification of the oceans are often advanced as consequences of global change. However, many environmental changes, especially those involving weather (as opposed to climate), are often stochastic, variable and extreme, particularly in temperate terrestrial or freshwater habitats. Moreover, few studies of animal and plant phenotypic plasticity employ realistic (i.e. short-term, stochastic) environmental change in their protocols. Here, I posit that the frequently abrupt environmental changes (days, weeks, months) accompanying much longer-term general climate change (e.g. global warming over decades or centuries) require consideration of the true nature of environmental change (as opposed to statistical means) coupled with an expansion of focus to consider developmental phenotypic plasticity. Such plasticity can be in multiple forms – obligatory/facultative, beneficial/deleterious – depending upon the degree and rate of environmental variability at specific points in organismal development. Essentially, adult phenotypic plasticity, as important as it is, will be irrelevant if developing offspring lack sufficient plasticity to create modified phenotypes necessary for survival.


Eco-immunology in the cold: the role of immunity in shaping the overwintering survival of ectotherms
The effect of temperature on physiology mediates many of the challenges that ectotherms face under climate change. Ectotherm immunity is thermally sensitive and, as such, environmental change is likely to have complex effects on survival, disease resistance and transmission. The effects of temperature on immunity will be particularly profound in winter because cold and overwintering are important triggers and regulators of ectotherm immune activity. Low temperatures can both suppress and activate immune responses independent of parasites, which suggests that temperature not only affects the rate of immune responses but also provides information that allows overwintering ectotherms to balance investment in immunity and other physiological processes that underlie winter survival. Changing winter temperatures are now shifting ectotherm immunity, as well as the demand for energy conservation and protection against parasites. Whether an ectotherm can survive the winter will thus depend on whether new immune phenotypes will shift to match the conditions of the new environment, or leave ectotherms vulnerable to infection or energy depletion. Here, we synthesise patterns of overwintering immunity in ectotherms and examine how new winter conditions might affect ectotherm immunity. We then explore whether it is possible to predict the effects of changing winter conditions on ectotherm vulnerability to the direct and indirect effects of parasites.


Can physiological engineering/programming increase multi-generational thermal tolerance to extreme temperature events?
Organisms increasingly encounter higher frequencies of extreme weather events as a consequence of global climate change. Currently, few strategies are available to mitigate climate change effects on animals arising from acute extreme high-temperature events. We tested the capacity of physiological engineering to influence the intra- and multi-generational upper thermal tolerance capacity of a model organism, Artemia, subjected to extreme high temperatures. Enhancement of specific physiological regulators during development could affect thermal tolerance or life-history attributes affecting subsequent fitness. Using experimental Artemia populations, we exposed F0 individuals to one of four treatments: heat hardening (28°C to 36°C, 1°C per 10 min), heat hardening plus serotonin (0.056 μg ml−1), heat hardening plus methionine (0.79 mg ml−1) and a control treatment. Regulator concentrations were based on previous literature. Serotonin may promote thermal tolerance, acting upon metabolism and life history. Methionine acts as a methylation agent across generations. For all groups, measurements were collected for three performance traits of individual thermal tolerance (upper sublethal thermal limit, lethal limit and dysregulation range) over two generations. The results showed that no treatment increased the upper thermal limit during acute thermal stress, although serotonin-treated and methionine-treated individuals outperformed controls across multiple thermal performance traits. Additionally, some effects were evident across generations. Together, these results suggest that phenotypic engineering provides complex outcomes, and if implemented with heat hardening can further influence performance in multiple thermal tolerance traits, within and across generations. Potentially, such techniques could be up-scaled to provide resilience and stability in populations susceptible to extreme temperature events.


Understanding variation in metabolic rate
Metabolic rate reflects an organism's capacity for growth, maintenance and reproduction, and is likely to be a target of selection. Physiologists have long sought to understand the causes and consequences of within-individual to among-species variation in metabolic rates – how metabolic rates relate to performance and how they should evolve. Traditionally, this has been viewed from a mechanistic perspective, relying primarily on hypothesis-driven approaches. A more agnostic, but ultimately more powerful tool for understanding the dynamics of phenotypic variation is through use of the breeder's equation, because variation in metabolic rate is likely to be a consequence of underlying microevolutionary processes. Here we show that metabolic rates are often significantly heritable, and are therefore free to evolve under selection. We note, however, that ‘metabolic rate’ is not a single trait: in addition to the obvious differences between metabolic levels (e.g. basal, resting, free-living, maximal), metabolic rate changes through ontogeny and in response to a range of extrinsic factors, and is therefore subject to multivariate constraint and selection. We emphasize three key advantages of studying metabolic rate within a quantitative genetics framework: its formalism, and its predictive and comparative power. We make several recommendations when applying a quantitative genetics framework: (i) measuring selection based on actual fitness, rather than proxies for fitness; (ii) considering the genetic covariances between metabolic rates throughout ontogeny; and (iii) estimating genetic covariances between metabolic rates and other traits. A quantitative genetics framework provides the means for quantifying the evolutionary potential of metabolic rate and why variance in metabolic rates within populations might be maintained.


Learning to starve: impacts of food limitation beyond the stress period
Starvation is common among wild animal populations, and many individuals experience repeated bouts of starvation over the course of their lives. Although much information has been gained through laboratory studies of acute starvation, little is known about how starvation affects an animal once food is again available (i.e. during the refeeding and recovery phases). Many animals exhibit a curious phenomenon – some seem to ‘get better’ at starving following exposure to one or more starvation events – by this we mean that they exhibit potentially adaptive responses, including reduced rates of mass loss, reduced metabolic rates, and lower costs of digestion. During subsequent refeedings they may also exhibit improved digestive efficiency and more rapid mass gain. Importantly, these responses can last until the next starvation bout or even be inherited and expressed in the subsequent generation. Currently, however, little is known about the molecular regulation and physiological mechanisms underlying these changes. Here, we identify areas of research that can fill in the most pressing knowledge gaps. In particular, we highlight how recently refined techniques (e.g. stable isotope tracers, quantitative magnetic resonance and thermal measurement) as well as next-generation sequencing approaches (e.g. RNA-seq, proteomics and holobiome sequencing) can address specific starvation-focused questions. We also describe outstanding unknowns ripe for future research regarding the timing and severity of starvation, and concerning the persistence of these responses and their interactions with other ecological stressors.


Comparative feeding strategies and kinematics in phocid seals: suction without specialized skull morphology
Feeding kinematic studies inform our understanding of behavioral diversity and provide a framework for studying the flexibility and constraints of different prey acquisition strategies. However, little is known about the feeding behaviors used by many marine mammals. We characterized the feeding behaviors and associated kinematics of captive bearded (Erignathus barbatus), harbor (Phoca vitulina), ringed (Pusa hispida), and spotted (Phoca largha) seals through controlled feeding trials. All species primarily used a suction feeding strategy but were also observed using a biting strategy, specifically pierce feeding. Suction feeding was distinct from pierce feeding and was characterized by significantly faster feeding times, smaller gape and gape angles, smaller gular depressions, and fewer jaw motions. Most species showed higher variability in suction feeding performance than pierce feeding, indicating that suction feeding is a behaviorally flexible strategy. Bearded seals were the only species for which there was strong correspondence between skull and dental morphology and feeding strategy, providing further support for their classification as suction feeding specialists. Harbor, ringed, and spotted seals have been classified as pierce feeders based on skull and dental morphologies. Our behavioral and kinematic analyses show that suction feeding is also an important feeding strategy for these species, indicating that skull morphology alone does not capture the true diversity of feeding behaviors used by pinnipeds. The ability of all four species to use more than one feeding strategy is likely advantageous for foraging in spatially and temporally dynamic marine ecosystems that favor opportunistic predators.


Three-dimensional analysis of the fast-start escape response of the least killifish, Heterandria formosa
Fish make C-starts to evade predator strikes. Double-bend (DB) C-starts consist of three stages: Stage 1, in which the fish rapidly bends into a C-shape; Stage 2, in which the fish bends in the opposite direction; and a variable Stage 3. In single-bend (SB) C-starts, the fish immediately straightens after Stage 1. Despite fish moving in three-dimensional (3D) space, fast-start responses of adult fish have mainly been studied in a horizontal plane. Using automated 3D tracking of multi-camera high-speed video sequences, we show that both SB and DB fast-starts by adult female least killifish (Heterandria formosa) often contain a significant vertical velocity component, and large changes in pitch (DB up to 43 deg) and roll (DB up to 77 deg) angles. Upwards and downwards elevation changes are correlated with changes in pitch angle of the head; movement in the horizontal plane is correlated with changes in yaw angle of the head. With respect to the stimulus, escape heading correlates with the elevation of the fish at the onset of motion. Irrespective of the initial orientation, fish can escape in any horizontal direction. In many cases, the centre of mass barely accelerates during Stage 1. However, it does accelerate in the final direction of the escape in other instances, indicating that Stage 1 can serve a propulsive role in addition to its preparatory role for Stage 2. Our findings highlight the importance of large-scale 3D analyses of fast-start manoeuvres of adult fish in uncovering the versatility of fish escape repertoire.


Thermal history and gape of individual Mytilus californianus correlate with oxidative damage and thermoprotective osmolytes
The ability of animals to cope with environmental stress depends – in part – on past experience, yet knowledge of the factors influencing an individual's physiology in nature remains underdeveloped. We used an individual monitoring system to record body temperature and valve gaping behavior of rocky intertidal zone mussels (Mytilus californianus). Thirty individuals were selected from two mussel beds (wave-exposed and wave-protected) that differ in thermal regime. Instrumented mussels were deployed at two intertidal heights (near the lower and upper edges of the mussel zone) and in a continuously submerged tidepool. Following a 23-day monitoring period, measures of oxidative damage to DNA and lipids, antioxidant capacities (catalase activity and peroxyl radical scavenging) and tissue contents of organic osmolytes were obtained from gill tissue of each individual. Univariate and multivariate analyses indicated that inter-individual variation in cumulative thermal stress is a predominant driver of physiological variation. Thermal history over the outplant period was positively correlated with oxidative DNA damage. Thermal history was also positively correlated with tissue contents of taurine, a thermoprotectant osmolyte, and with activity of the antioxidant enzyme catalase. Origin site differences, possibly indicative of developmental plasticity, were only significant for catalase activity. Gaping behavior was positively correlated with tissue contents of two osmolytes. Overall, these results are some of the first to clearly demonstrate relationships between inter-individual variation in recent experience in the field and inter-individual physiological variation, in this case within mussel beds. Such micro-scale, environmentally mediated physiological differences should be considered in attempts to forecast biological responses to a changing environment.


Digestive and locomotor capacity show opposing responses to changing food availability in an ambush predatory fish
Metabolic rates vary widely within species, but little is known about how variation in the ‘floor’ [i.e. standard metabolic rate (SMR) in ectotherms] and ‘ceiling’ [maximum metabolic rate (MMR)] for an individual's aerobic scope (AS) are linked with digestive and locomotor function. Any links among metabolic traits and aspects of physiological performance may also be modulated by fluctuations in food availability. This study followed changes in SMR, MMR, and digestive and locomotor capacity in southern catfish (Silurus meridionalis) throughout 15 days of food deprivation and 15 days of refeeding. Individuals downregulated SMR during food deprivation and showed only a 10% body mass decrease during this time. Whereas critical swim speed (Ucrit) was robust to food deprivation, digestive function decreased after fasting with a reduced peak oxygen uptake during specific dynamic action (SDA) and prolonged SDA duration. During refeeding, individuals displayed rapid growth and digestive function recovered to pre-fasting levels. However, refed fish showed a lower Ucrit than would be expected for their increased body length and in comparison to measures at the start of the study. Reduced swimming ability may be a consequence of compensatory growth: growth rate was negatively correlated with changes in Ucrit during refeeding. Southern catfish downregulate digestive function to reduce energy expenditure during food deprivation, but regain digestive capacity during refeeding, potentially at the cost of decreased swimming performance. The plasticity of maintenance requirements suggests that SMR is a key fitness trait for in this ambush predator. Shifts in trait correlations with food availability suggest that the potential for correlated selection may depend on context.


Ocellar structure is driven by the mode of locomotion and activity time in Myrmecia ants
Insects have exquisitely adapted their compound eyes to suit the ambient light intensity in the different temporal niches they occupy. In addition to the compound eye, most flying insects have simple eyes known as ocelli, which assist in flight stabilisation, horizon detection and orientation. Among ants, typically the flying alates have ocelli while the pedestrian workers lack this structure. The Australian ant genus Myrmecia is one of the few ant genera in which both workers and alates have three ocellar lenses. Here, we studied the variation in the ocellar structure in four sympatric species of Myrmecia that are active at different times of the day. In addition, we took advantage of the walking and flying modes of locomotion in workers and males, respectively, to ask whether the type of movement influences the ocellar structure. We found that ants active in dim light had larger ocellar lenses and wider rhabdoms compared with those in bright-light conditions. In the ocellar rhabdoms of workers active in dim-light habitats, typically each retinula cell contributed microvilli in more than one direction, probably destroying polarisation sensitivity. The organisation of the ocellar retina in the day-active workers and the males suggests that in these animals some cells are sensitive to the pattern of polarised skylight. We found that the night-flying males had a tapetum that reflects light back to the rhabdom, increasing their optical sensitivity. We discuss the possible functions of ocelli to suit the different modes of locomotion and the discrete temporal niches that animals occupy.


Eating when ill is risky: immune defense impairs food detoxification in the caterpillar Manduca sexta
Mounting an immune response consumes resources, which should lead to increased feeding. However, activating the immune system reduces feeding (i.e. illness-induced anorexia) in both vertebrates and invertebrates, suggesting that it may be beneficial. We suggest that illness-induced anorexia may be an adaptive response to conflicts between immune defense and food detoxification. We found that activating an immune response in the caterpillar Manduca sexta increased its susceptibility to the toxin permethrin. Conversely, a sublethal dose of permethrin reduced resistance to the bacterium Serratia marcescens, demonstrating a negative interaction between detoxification and immune defense. Immune system activation and toxin challenge each depleted the amount of glutathione in the hemolymph. Increasing glutathione concentration in the hemolymph increased survival for both toxin- and immune+toxin-challenged groups. The results of this rescue experiment suggest that decreased glutathione availability, such as occurs during an immune response, impairs detoxification. We also found that the expression of some detoxification genes were not upregulated during a combined immune–toxin challenge, although they were when animals received a toxin challenge alone. These results suggest that immune defense reduces food detoxification capacity. Illness-induced anorexia may protect animals by decreasing exposure to food toxins when detoxification is impaired.


Multiple spectral channels in branchiopods. II. Role in light-dependent behavior and natural light environments
Light is a primary environmental factor used by aquatic invertebrates for depth selection behavior. Many branchiopod crustaceans live in ephemeral aquatic habitats. All branchiopod crustaceans studied to date express four or more visual opsins in their compound eyes. We asked whether two branchiopods, Triops longicaudatus and Streptocephalus mackini, use multiple spectral channels to regulate their position in the water column. At the lowest intensities that elicited photonegative behavior, both species had broad spectral bandwidths, suggesting they use multiple spectral photoreceptor classes. Male S. mackini were more likely to maintain a vertical position 8.0–12.0 cm below the surface than females, independently of whether females were present. Male photopositive behavior at low intensity was restricted to a narrow bandwidth centered at 532 nm, suggesting a single photoreceptor class is used to maintain position above females. We compared ephemeral pools from two regions in Arizona and found that diffuse light attenuation coefficients were two orders of magnitude greater than the most heavily attenuating coastal waters. At less than 1 m of depth, pools were often dimmer than terrestrial habitats under starlight. Soil particle size distribution in each region affected spectral light environments, and behavioral responses of field-caught shrimp were adapted to the spectral properties of their region. The results suggest that branchiopods predominantly use luminance vision summed from multiple spectral photoreceptor classes for depth selection in dim, spectrally variable environments. The neuroanatomical basis for summation is described in a companion paper.


Hormesis-like effect of mild larval crowding on thermotolerance in Drosophila flies
Crowding is a complex stress that can affect organisms’ physiology, especially through decreased food quality and accessibility. Here, we evaluated the effect of larval density on several biological traits of Drosophila melanogaster. An increasing gradient, from 1 to 1000 eggs per milliliter of food, was used to characterize life-history traits variations. Crowded conditions resulted in striking decreases of fresh mass (up to 6-fold) and viability, as well as delayed development. Next, we assessed heat and cold tolerance in L3 larvae reared at three selected larval densities: low (LD, 5 eggs ml−1), medium (MD, 60 eggs ml−1) and high (HD, 300 eggs ml−1). LT50 values of MD and, to a lesser extent, HD larvae were repeatedly higher than those from LD larvae, under both heat and cold stress. We investigated potential physiological correlates associated with this density-dependent thermotolerance shift. No marked pattern could be drawn from the expression of stress-related genes. However, a metabolomic analysis differentiated the metabotypes of the three density levels, with potential candidates associated with this clustering (e.g. glucose 6-phosphate, GABA, sugars and polyols). Under HD, signs of oxidative stress were noted but not confirmed at the transcriptional level. Finally, urea, a common metabolic waste, was found to accumulate substantially in food from MD and HD larvae. When supplemented in food, urea stimulated cold tolerance but reduced heat tolerance in LD larvae. This study highlights that larval crowding is an important environmental parameter that induces drastic consequences on flies’ physiology and can affect thermotolerance in a density-specific way.


Exogenous stress hormones alter energetic and nutrient costs of development and metamorphosis
Variation in environmental conditions during larval life stages can shape development during critical windows and have lasting effects on the adult organism. Changes in larval developmental rates in response to environmental conditions, for example, can trade off with growth to determine body size and condition at metamorphosis, which can affect adult survival and fecundity. However, it is unclear how use of energy and nutrients shape trade-offs across life-stage transitions because no studies have quantified these costs of larval development and metamorphosis. We used an experimental approach to manipulate physiological stress in larval amphibians, along with respirometry and 13C-breath testing to quantify the energetic and nutritional costs of development and metamorphosis. Central to larval developmental responses to environmental conditions is the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal/interrenal (HPA/I) axis, which regulates development, as well as energy homeostasis and stress responses across many taxa. Given these pleiotropic effects of HPA/I activity, manipulation of the HPA/I axis may provide insight into costs of metamorphosis. We measured the energetic and nutritional costs across the entire larval period and metamorphosis in a larval amphibian exposed to exogenous glucocorticoid (GC) hormones – the primary hormone secreted by the HPA/I axis. We measured metabolic rates and dry mass across larval ontogeny, and quantified lipid stores and nutrient oxidation via 13C-breath testing during metamorphosis, under control and GC-exposed conditions. Changes in dry mass match metamorphic states previously reported in the literature, but dynamics of metabolism were influenced by the transition from aquatic to terrestrial respiration. GC-treated larvae had lower dry mass, decreased fat stores and higher oxygen consumption during stages where controls were conserving energy. GC-treated larvae also oxidized greater amounts of 13C-labelled protein stores. These results provide evidence for a proximate cause of the physiological trade-off between larval growth and development, and provide insight into the energetic and nutrient costs that shape fitness trade-offs across life stages.


Reduced thermal tolerance during salinity acclimation in brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) can be rescued by prior treatment with cortisol
The aims of this study were to assess whether thermal tolerance of brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) is affected during seawater (SW) acclimation and to investigate the role of cortisol in osmoregulation and thermal tolerance during SW acclimation. Freshwater (FW)-acclimated brook trout at 18°C (Tacc) were exposed to SW for 16 days, whilst maintaining a FW control. Fish were examined for critical thermal maximum (CTmax) 0 (before), 2, 5 and 16 days after SW exposure, and sampled at Tacc and CTmax for analysis of plasma cortisol, glucose and Cl−, gill Na+/K+-ATPase (NKA) activity and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) abundance, and white muscle water content. At 2 days in SW, CTmax was significantly reduced (from 31 to 26°C), and then recovered by 16 days. This transient decrease in thermal tolerance coincided with a transient increase in plasma Cl− and decrease in muscle moisture content. Salinity itself had no effect on gill HSP70 abundance compared with the large and immediate effects of high temperature exposure during CTmax testing. To examine the role of cortisol in osmoregulation, brook trout were administered a cortisol implant (5 and 25 μg g−1 CORT) prior to SW exposure. Both CORT doses significantly increased their capacity to maintain plasma Cl− during SW acclimation. Treatment with the 25 μg g−1 CORT dose was shown to significantly improve CTmax after 2 days in SW, and CTmax was associated with plasma Cl− and muscle moisture content. These findings indicate that brook trout are sensitive to temperature during SW acclimation and that thermal tolerance is associated with ion and water balance during SW acclimation.


Sensing in a noisy world: lessons from auditory specialists, echolocating bats
All animals face the essential task of extracting biologically meaningful sensory information from the ‘noisy’ backdrop of their environments. Here, we examine mechanisms used by echolocating bats to localize objects, track small prey and communicate in complex and noisy acoustic environments. Bats actively control and coordinate both the emission and reception of sound stimuli through integrated sensory and motor mechanisms that have evolved together over tens of millions of years. We discuss how bats behave in different ecological scenarios, including detecting and discriminating target echoes from background objects, minimizing acoustic interference from competing conspecifics and overcoming insect noise. Bats tackle these problems by deploying a remarkable array of auditory behaviors, sometimes in combination with the use of other senses. Behavioral strategies such as ceasing sonar call production and active jamming of the signals of competitors provide further insight into the capabilities and limitations of echolocation. We relate these findings to the broader topic of how animals extract relevant sensory information in noisy environments. While bats have highly refined abilities for operating under noisy conditions, they face the same challenges encountered by many other species. We propose that the specialized sensory mechanisms identified in bats are likely to occur in analogous systems across the animal kingdom.


Effects of sublethal doses of thiacloprid and its formulation Calypso® on the learning and memory performance of honey bees
Learning and memory play a central role in the behavior and communication of foraging bees. We have previously shown that chronic uptake of the neonicotinoid thiacloprid affects the behavior of honey bees in the field. Foraging behavior, homing success, navigation performance and social communication were impaired. Thiacloprid collected at a feeding site at low doses accumulates in foragers over time. Here, we applied a laboratory standard procedure (the proboscis-extension response conditioning) in order to assess which processes, acquisition, memory consolidation and/or memory retrieval were compromised after bees were fed either with thiacloprid or the formulation of thiacloprid named Calypso® at different sublethal doses. Extinction and generalization tests allowed us to investigate whether bees respond to a learned stimulus, and how selectively. We showed that thiacloprid, as active substance and as formulation, poses a substantial risk to honey bees by disrupting learning and memory functions. These data support and specify the data collected in the field.


Physiological responses to fluctuating temperatures are characterized by distinct transcriptional profiles in a solitary bee
Exposure to stressful low temperatures during development can result in the accumulation of deleterious physiological effects called chill injury. Metabolic imbalances, disruptions in ion homeostasis and oxidative stress contribute to the increased mortality of chill-injured insects. Interestingly, survival can be significantly increased when chill-susceptible insects are exposed to a daily warm-temperature pulse during chilling. We hypothesize that warm pulses allow for the repair of damage associated with chill injury. Here, we describe transcriptional responses during exposure to a fluctuating thermal regime, relative to constant chilled temperatures, during pupal development in the alfalfa leafcutting bee, Megachile rotundata, using a combination of RNA-seq and qPCR. Pupae were exposed to either a constant, chilled temperature of 6°C, or 6°C with a daily pulse of 20°C for 7 days. RNA-seq after experimental treatment revealed differential expression of transcripts involved in construction of cell membranes, oxidation–reduction and various metabolic processes. These mechanisms provide support for shared physiological responses to chill injury across taxa. The large number of differentially expressed transcripts observed after 7 days of treatment suggests that the initial divergence in expression profiles between the two treatments occurred upstream of the time point sampled. Additionally, the differential expression profiles observed in this study show little overlap with those differentially expressed during temperature stress in the diapause state of M. rotundata. While the mechanisms governing the physiological response to low-temperature stress are shared, the specific transcripts associated with the response differ between life stages.


Temperature effects on the cardiorespiratory control of American bullfrog tadpoles based on a non-invasive methodology
Temperature effects on cardiac autonomic tonus in amphibian larval stages have never been investigated. Therefore, we evaluated the effect of different temperatures (15, 25 and 30°C) on the cardiorespiratory rates and cardiac autonomic tonus of premetamorphic tadpoles of the bullfrog, Lithobates catesbeianus. To this end, a non-invasive method was developed to permit measurements of electrocardiogram (ECG) and buccal movements (fB; surface electromyography of the buccal floor). For evaluation of autonomic regulation, intraperitoneal injections of Ringer solution (control), atropine (cholinergic muscarinic antagonist) and sotalol (β-adrenergic antagonist) were performed. Ringer solution injections did not affect heart rate (fH) or fB across temperatures. Cardiorespiratory parameters were significantly augmented by temperature (fH: 24.5±1.0, 54.5±2.0 and 75.8±2.8 beats min−1 at 15, 25 and 30°C, respectively; fB: 30.3±1.1, 73.1±4.0 and 100.6±3.7 movements min−1 at 15, 25 and 30°C, respectively). A predominant vagal tone was observed at 15°C (32.0±3.2%) and 25°C (27.2±6.7%) relative to the adrenergic tone. At 30°C, the adrenergic tone increased relative to the lower temperature. In conclusion, the cholinergic and adrenergic tones seem to be independent of temperature for colder thermal intervals (15–25°C), while exposure to a hotter ambient temperature (30°C) seems to be followed by a significant increase in adrenergic tone and may reflect cardiovascular adjustments made to match oxygen delivery to demand. Furthermore, while excluding the use of implantable electrodes or cannulae, this study provides a suitable non-invasive method for investigating cardiorespiratory function (cardiac and respiratory rates) in water-breathing animals such as the tadpole.


Osmoregulation, bioenergetics and oxidative stress in coastal marine invertebrates: raising the questions for future research
Osmoregulation is by no means an energetically cheap process, and its costs have been extensively quantified in terms of respiration and aerobic metabolism. Common products of mitochondrial activity are reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, which may cause oxidative stress by degrading key cell components, while playing essential roles in cell homeostasis. Given the delicate equilibrium between pro- and antioxidants in fueling acclimation responses, the need for a thorough understanding of the relationship between salinity-induced oxidative stress and osmoregulation arises as an important issue, especially in the context of global changes and anthropogenic impacts on coastal habitats. This is especially urgent for intertidal/estuarine organisms, which may be subject to drastic salinity and habitat changes, leading to redox imbalance. How do osmoregulation strategies determine energy expenditure, and how do these processes affect organisms in terms of oxidative stress? What mechanisms are used to cope with salinity-induced oxidative stress? This Commentary aims to highlight the main gaps in our knowledge, covering all levels of organization. From an energy-redox perspective, we discuss the link between environmental salinity changes and physiological responses at different levels of biological organization. Future studies should seek to provide a detailed understanding of the relationship between osmoregulatory strategies and redox metabolism, thereby informing conservation physiologists and allowing them to tackle the new challenges imposed by global climate change.


The environmentally tuned transcriptomes of Mytilus mussels
Transcriptomics is a powerful tool for elucidating the molecular mechanisms that underlie the ability of organisms to survive and thrive in dynamic and changing environments. Here, we review the major contributions in this field, and we focus on studies of mussels in the genus Mytilus, which are well-established models for the study of ecological physiology in fluctuating environments. Our review is organized into four main sections. First, we illustrate how the abiotic forces of the intertidal environment drive the rhythmic coupling of gene expression to diel and tidal cycles in Mytilus californianus. Second, we discuss the challenges and pitfalls of conducting transcriptomic studies in field-acclimatized animals. Third, we examine the link between transcriptomic responses to environmental stress and biogeographic distributions in blue mussels, Mytilus trossulus and Mytilus galloprovincialis. Fourth, we present a comparison of transcriptomic datasets and identify 175 genes that share common responses to heat stress across Mytilus species. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that transcriptomics can provide an informative snapshot of the physiological state of an organism within an environmental context. In a comparative framework, transcriptomics can reveal how natural selection has shaped patterns of transcriptional regulation that may ultimately influence biogeography.


Silica-induced fibrosis: an ancient response from the early metazoans
Exposure to crystalline silica particles causes silicosis, an occupational disease leading to an overproduction of collagen in the lung. The first step of this pathology is characterized by the release of inflammatory mediators. Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine directly involved in silica-induced pulmonary fibrosis. The marine demosponge Chondrosia reniformis is able to incorporate silica grains and partially dissolve the crystalline forms apparently without toxic effects. In the present work, C. reniformis tissue explants were treated with fine quartz dust and the expression level of fibrogenic genes was assayed by qPCR, demonstrating an overexpression of a fibrillar and a non-fibrillar collagen and of prolyl-4-hydroxylase enzyme. The deposition of new collagen could also be documented in quartz-treated sponge explants. Furthermore, TNF pro-inflammatory cytokine overexpression and involvement in silica-induced sponge collagen biosynthesis was demonstrated in quartz-treated explants as compared with controls by means of specific TNF inhibitors affecting the fibrogenic gene response. As no documentable detrimental effect was observed in treated explants, we conclude that the C. reniformis unique quartz engulfment and erosion is physiological and beneficial to the animal, leading to new collagen synthesis and strengthening of the body stiffness. Thus, we put forward the hypothesis that an ancient physiological behaviour from the lowest of the Metazoa, persisting through evolution via the same molecular mediators such as TNF, may have become the cause of disease in the specialized tissues of higher animals such as mammals.


Living with a leaky skin: upregulation of ion transport proteins during sloughing
Amphibian skin is a multifunctional organ providing protection from the external environment and facilitating the physiological exchange of gases, water and salts with the environment. In order to maintain these functions, the outer layer of skin is regularly replaced in a process called sloughing. During sloughing, the outermost layer of the skin is removed in its entirety, which has the potential to interfere with skin permeability and ion transport, disrupting homeostasis. In this study, we measured, in vivo, the effects of sloughing on the cutaneous efflux of ions in toads Rhinella marina kept in freshwater conditions. We also measured transepithelial potential, cutaneous resistance, active ion transport and the distribution, abundance and gene expression of the key ion transport proteins sodium–potassium ATPase (NKA) and epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) during sloughing. We hypothesised that the increase in transepithelial efflux of ions during sloughing is a consequence of increased permeability and/or a reduction in the abundance or expression of cutaneous ion transport proteins, resulting in disruption of internal ion homeostasis. There was a significant increase in sodium and chloride efflux during sloughing in R. marina. However, although in vitro skin resistance decreased after sloughing, active sodium transport increased commensurate with an increase in NKA and ENaC protein abundance in the skin. These changes in skin function associated with sloughing did not affect the maintenance of internal electrolyte homeostasis. These results suggest that during sloughing, amphibians actively maintain internal homeostasis by increasing cutaneous rates of ion uptake.


Mechanical properties of sediment determine burrowing success and influence distribution of two lugworm species
We apply new perspectives on how organisms burrow by examining the association of in situ variation in sediment mechanical properties with burrowing ability and species distribution of two sympatric lugworms, Abarenicola pacifica and Abarenicola claparedi. We quantified the sediment's resistance to penetration and its grain size distribution at sites inhabited by each species. Abarenicola pacifica individuals were found in significantly harder to penetrate, more heterogeneous sediments. We compared worm burrowing ability using reciprocal transplant experiments. Worms from firmer sediments, A. pacifica, were able to make successful steep burrows in sediments characteristic of either species. In contrast, A. claparedi individuals often failed to complete successful burrows in the firmer A. pacifica sediment. To examine how morphological differences could explain these patterns, we compared body wall musculature and measured how well individuals support their own bodies when draped over a cantilever. Lugworms from the firmer sediment had thicker body wall musculature and held their bodies more rigidly than did worms from softer sediments. Additionally, we observed subtle differences in the papillae on the proboscises' surfaces, which could affect worm–sediment interactions, but we found no differences in the chaetae of the two species. Abarenicola claparedi produced more mucus, which could be important in shoring up burrow walls in their shifting, sandy habitat. This study presents the first example of using field-based experiments to determine how sediment mechanical properties and worm burrowing ability could act to determine organismal distribution. Our findings have broader ecological implications because of the role of lugworms as ecosystem engineers.


Modeling the costs and benefits associated with the evolution of endothermy using a robotic python
Endothermy provides considerable benefits to an organism but requires large energy investment. To understand potential driving forces that would lead to the evolution of endothermy, it is important to understand the energy costs and potential benefits of intermediate steps between ectothermy and homeothermic endothermy as well as the influences of environmental conditions on energetic costs. However, efforts to examine intermediate conditions are greatly limited by the predominant natural dichotomy between ectothermy and endothermy. Facultative endothermy by brooding pythons provides a fortunate study system where endothermy is beneficial but not essential. As one cannot control the extent of energy investment in heat production by a female python, we created an artificial snake with controllable heating capability. This enabled us to determine the energetic costs of maintaining a clutch at a preferred temperature, and to determine the relative thermal benefit of limited energy-producing capability (i.e. 50% of the required energy to maintain the preferred developmental temperature). We manipulated the pseudoserpent's clutch size (5, 10, 15 eggs), diel ambient temperature cycle (2, 4, 6°C) and insulation (with and without) at each of these power levels: unlimited power, half required power and no power. We found no significant effect of clutch size on either power requirements or developmental temperature. Energy requirements increased with the amplitude of the diel cycle and decreased with the addition of insulation, while the quality of the thermal environment decreased with the amplitude of the diel cycle. Interestingly, the quality of the thermal environment also decreased with the addition of insulation. We discuss these results within the context of the reproductive model of the evolution of endothermy.


Specialist–generalist model of body temperature regulation can be applied at the intraspecific level
According to theoretical predictions, endothermic homeotherms can be classified as either thermal specialists or thermal generalists. In high cost environments, thermal specialists are supposed to be more prone to using facultative heterothermy than generalists. We tested this hypothesis at the intraspecific level using male laboratory mice (C57BL/cmdb) fasted under different thermal conditions (20 and 10°C) and for different time periods (12–48 h). We predicted that variability of body temperature (Tb) and time spent with Tb below normothermy would increase with the increase of environmental demands (duration of fasting and cold). To verify the above prediction, we measured Tb and energy expenditure of fasted mice. We did not record torpor bouts but we found that variations in Tb and time spent in hypothermia increased with environmental demands. In response to fasting, mice also decreased their energy expenditure. Moreover, animals that showed more precise thermoregulation when fed had more variable Tb when fasted. We postulate that the prediction of the thermoregulatory generalist–specialist trade-off can be applied at the intraspecific level, offering a valid tool for identifying mechanistic explanations of the differences in animal responses to variations in energy supply.


Acoustic measurements of post-dive cardiac responses in southern elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) during surfacing at sea
Measuring physiological data in free-ranging marine mammals remains challenging, owing to their far-ranging foraging habitat. Yet, it is important to understand how these divers recover from effort expended underwater, as marine mammals can perform deep and recurrent dives. Among them, southern elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) are one of the most extreme divers, diving continuously at great depth and for long duration while travelling over large distances within the Southern Ocean. To determine how they manage post-dive recovery, we deployed hydrophones on four post-breeding female southern elephant seals. Cardiac data were extracted from sound recordings when the animal was at the surface, breathing. Mean heart rate at the surface was 102.4±4.9 beats min−1 and seals spent on average 121±20 s breathing. During these surface intervals, the instantaneous heart rate increased with time. Elephant seals are assumed to drastically slow their heart rate (bradycardia) while they are deep underwater, and increase it (tachycardia) during the ascent towards the surface. Our finding suggests that tachycardia continues while the animal stays breathing at the surface. Also, the measured mean heart rate at the surface was unrelated to the duration and swimming effort of the dive prior to the surface interval. Recovery (at the surface) after physical effort (underwater) appears to be related to the overall number of heart beats performed at the surface, and therefore total surface duration. Southern elephant seals recover from dives by adjusting the time spent at the surface rather than their heart rate.


Physiological mechanisms constraining ectotherm fright-dive performance at elevated temperatures
Survival of air-breathing, diving ectotherms is dependent on their capacity to optimise the time available for obligate underwater activities, such as predator avoidance. Submergence times are thermally sensitive, with dive durations significantly reduced by increases in water temperature, deeming these animals particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change. The physiological mechanisms underlying this compromised performance are unclear but are hypothesised to be linked to increased oxygen demand and a reduced capacity for metabolic depression at elevated temperatures. Here, we investigated how water temperature (both acute and chronic exposures) affected the physiology of juvenile estuarine crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) performing predator avoidance dives (i.e. fright-dives). Diving oxygen consumption, ‘fright’ bradycardia, haematocrit and haemoglobin (indicators of blood oxygen carrying capacity) were assessed at two test temperatures, reflective of different climate change scenarios (i.e. current summer water temperatures, 28°C, and ‘high’ climate warming, 34°C). Diving oxygen consumption rate increased threefold between 28 and 34°C (Q10=7.4). The capacity to depress oxygen demand was reduced at elevated temperatures, with animals lowering oxygen demand from surface levels by 52.9±27.8% and 27.8±16.5% (means±s.e.m.) at 28°C and 34°C, respectively. Resting and post-fright-dive haematocrit and haemoglobin were thermally insensitive. Together these findings suggest decrements in fright-dive performance at elevated temperatures stem from increased oxygen demand coupled with a reduced capacity for metabolic depression.


Considerations for the use of transcriptomics in identifying the ‘genes that matter’ for environmental adaptation
Transcriptomics has emerged as a powerful approach for exploring physiological responses to the environment. However, like any other experimental approach, transcriptomics has its limitations. Transcriptomics has been criticized as an inappropriate method to identify genes with large impacts on adaptive responses to the environment because: (1) genes with large impacts on fitness are rare; (2) a large change in gene expression does not necessarily equate to a large effect on fitness; and (3) protein activity is most relevant to fitness, and mRNA abundance is an unreliable indicator of protein activity. In this review, these criticisms are re-evaluated in the context of recent systems-level experiments that provide new insight into the relationship between gene expression and fitness during environmental stress. In general, these criticisms remain valid today, and indicate that exclusively using transcriptomics to screen for genes that underlie environmental adaptation will overlook constitutively expressed regulatory genes that play major roles in setting tolerance limits. Standard practices in transcriptomic data analysis pipelines may also be limiting insight by prioritizing highly differentially expressed and conserved genes over those genes that undergo moderate fold-changes and cannot be annotated. While these data certainly do not undermine the continued and widespread use of transcriptomics within environmental physiology, they do highlight the types of research questions for which transcriptomics is best suited and the need for more gene functional analyses. Such information is pertinent at a time when transcriptomics has become increasingly tractable and many researchers may be contemplating integrating transcriptomics into their research programs.


Incubation temperature causes skewed sex ratios in a precocial bird
Many animals with genetic sex determination are nonetheless capable of manipulating sex ratios via behavioral and physiological means, which can sometimes result in fitness benefits to the parent. Sex ratio manipulation in birds is not widely documented, and revealing the mechanisms for altered sex ratios in vertebrates remains a compelling area of research. Incubation temperature is a key component of the developmental environment for birds, but despite its well-documented effects on offspring phenotype it has rarely been considered as a factor in avian sex ratios. Using ecologically relevant manipulations of incubation temperature within the range 35.0–37.0°C, we found greater mortality of female embryos during incubation than males regardless of incubation temperature, and evidence that more female than male embryos die at the lowest incubation temperature (35.0°C). Our findings in conjunction with previous work in brush turkeys suggest incubation temperature is an important determinant of avian secondary sex ratios that requires additional study, and should be considered when estimating the impact of climate change on avian populations.


Economic thermoregulatory response explains mismatch between thermal physiology and behaviour in newts
Temperature is an important factor determining distribution and abundance of organisms. Predicting the impact of warming climate on ectotherm populations requires information about species' thermal requirements, i.e. their so-called ‘thermal niche’. The characterization of thermal niche remains a complicated task. We compared the applicability of two indirect approaches, based on reaction norm (aerobic scope curve) and optimality (preferred body temperature) concepts, for indirect estimation of thermal niche while using newts, Ichthyosaura alpestris, as a study system. If the two approaches are linked, then digesting newts should keep their body temperatures close to values maximizing aerobic scope for digestion. After feeding, newts maintained their body temperatures within a narrower range than did hungry individuals. The range of preferred body temperatures was well below the temperature maximizing aerobic scope for digestion. Optimal temperatures for factorial aerobic scope fell within the preferred body temperature range of digesting individuals. We conclude that digesting newts prefer body temperatures that are optimal for the maximum aerobic performance but relative to the maintenance costs. What might be termed the ‘economic’ thermoregulatory response explains the mismatch between thermal physiology and behaviour in this system.


Warm preconditioning protects against acute heat-induced respiratory dysfunction and delays bleaching in a symbiotic sea anemone
Preconditioning to non-stressful warming can protect some symbiotic cnidarians against the high temperature-induced collapse of their mutualistic endosymbiosis with photosynthetic dinoflagellates (Symbiodinium spp.), a process known as bleaching. Here, we sought to determine whether such preconditioning is underpinned by differential regulation of aerobic respiration. We quantified in vivo metabolism and mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activity in the naturally symbiotic sea anemone Exaiptasia pallida preconditioned to 30°C for >7 weeks as well as anemones kept at 26°C. Preconditioning resulted in increased Symbiodinium photosynthetic activity and holobiont (host+symbiont) respiration rates. Biomass-normalised activities of host respiratory enzymes [citrate synthase and the mitochondrial electron transport chain (mETC) complexes I and IV] were higher in preconditioned animals, suggesting that increased holobiont respiration may have been due to host mitochondrial biogenesis and/or enlargement. Subsequent acute heating of preconditioned and ‘thermally naive’ animals to 33°C induced dramatic increases in host mETC complex I and Symbiodinium mETC complex II activities only in thermally naive E. pallida. These changes were not reflected in the activities of other respiratory enzymes. Furthermore, bleaching in preconditioned E. pallida (defined as the significant loss of symbionts) was delayed by several days relative to the thermally naive group. These findings suggest that changes to mitochondrial biogenesis and/or function in symbiotic cnidarians during warm preconditioning might play a protective role during periods of exposure to stressful heating.


Rates of hypoxia induction alter mechanisms of O2 uptake and the critical O2 tension of goldfish
The rate of hypoxia induction (RHI) is an important but overlooked dimension of environmental hypoxia that may affect an organism's survival. We hypothesized that, compared with rapid RHI, gradual RHI will afford an organism more time to alter plastic phenotypes associated with O2 uptake and subsequently reduce the critical O2 tension (Pcrit) of the rate of O2 uptake (ṀO2). We investigated this by determining Pcrit values for goldfish exposed to short (∼24 min), typical (∼84 min) and long (∼480 min) duration Pcrit trials to represent different RHIs. Consistent with our predictions, long duration Pcrit trials yielded significantly lower Pcrit values (1.0–1.4 kPa) than short and typical duration trials, which did not differ (2.6±0.3 and 2.5±0.2 kPa, respectively). Parallel experiments revealed these time-related shifts in Pcrit were associated with changes to aspects of the O2 transport cascade that took place over the hypoxia exposures: gill surface areas and haemoglobin–O2 binding affinities were significantly higher in fish exposed to gradual RHIs over 480 min than fish exposed to rapid RHIs over 60 min. Our results also revealed that the choice of respirometric technique (i.e. closed versus intermittent) does not affect Pcrit or routine ṀO2, despite the significantly reduced water pH and elevated CO2 and ammonia levels measured following closed-circuit Pcrit trials of ∼90 min. Together, our results demonstrate that gradual RHIs result in alterations to physiological parameters that enhance O2 uptake in hypoxic environments. An organism's innate Pcrit is therefore most accurately determined using rapid RHIs (<90 min) so as to avoid the confounding effects of hypoxic acclimation.


Rapid proteomic responses to a near-lethal heat stress in the salt marsh mussel Geukensia demissa
Acute heat stress perturbs cellular function on a variety of levels, leading to protein dysfunction and aggregation, oxidative stress and loss of metabolic homeostasis. If these challenges are not overcome quickly, the stressed organism can die. To better understand the earliest tissue-level responses to heat stress, we examined the proteomic response of gill from Geukensia demissa, an extremely eurythermal mussel from the temperate intertidal zone of eastern North America. We exposed 15°C-acclimated individuals to an acute near-lethal heat stress (45°C) for 1 h, and collected gill samples from 0 to 24 h of recovery. The changes in protein expression we found reveal a coordinated physiological response to acute heat stress: proteins associated with apoptotic processes were increased in abundance during the stress itself (i.e. at 0 h of recovery), while protein chaperones and foldases increased in abundance soon after (3 h). The greatest number of proteins changed abundance at 6 h; these included oxidative stress proteins and enzymes of energy metabolism. Proteins associated with the cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix also changed in abundance starting at 6 h, providing evidence of cell proliferation, migration and tissue remodeling. By 12 h, the response to acute heat stress was diminishing, with fewer stress and structural proteins changing in abundance. Finally, the proteins with altered abundances identified at 24 h suggest a return to the pre-stress anabolic state.


Interspecies comparison of the mechanical properties and biochemical composition of byssal threads
Several bivalve species produce byssus threads to provide attachment to substrates, with mechanical properties highly variable among species. Here, we examined the distal section of byssal threads produced by a range of bivalve species (Mytilus edulis, Mytilus trossulus, Mytilus galloprovincialis, Mytilus californianus, Pinna nobilis, Perna perna, Xenostrobus securis, Brachidontes solisianus and Isognomon bicolor) collected from different nearshore environments. Morphological and mechanical properties were measured, and biochemical analyses were performed. Multivariate redundancy analyses on mechanical properties revealed that byssal threads of M. californianus, M. galloprovincialis and P. nobilis have very distinct mechanical behaviours compared with the remaining species. Extensibility, strength and force were the main variables separating these species groups, which were highest for M. californianus and lowest for P. nobilis. Furthermore, the analysis of the amino acid composition revealed that I. bicolor and P. nobilis threads are significantly different from the other species, suggesting a different underlying structural strategy. Determination of metal contents showed that the individual concentration of inorganic elements varies, but that the dominant elements are conserved between species. Altogether, this bivalve species comparison suggests some molecular bases for the biomechanical characteristics of byssal fibres that may reflect phylogenetic limitations.


Stress and food deprivation: linking physiological state to migration success in a teleost fish
Food deprivation is a naturally occurring stressor that is thought to influence the ultimate life-history strategy of individuals. Little is known about how food deprivation interacts with other stressors to influence migration success. European populations of brown trout (Salmo trutta) exhibit partial migration, whereby a portion of the population smoltifies and migrates to the ocean, and the rest remain in their natal stream. This distinct, natural dichotomy of life-history strategies provides an excellent opportunity to explore the roles of energetic state (as affected by food deprivation) and activation of the glucocorticoid stress response in determining life-history strategy and survival of a migratory species. Using an experimental approach, the relative influences of short-term food deprivation and experimental cortisol elevation (i.e. intra-coelomic injection of cortisol suspended in cocoa butter) on migratory status, survival and growth of juvenile brown trout relative to a control were evaluated. Fewer fish migrated in both the food deprivation and cortisol treatments; however, migration of fish in cortisol and control treatments occurred at the same time while that of fish in the food deprivation treatment was delayed for approximately 1 week. A significantly greater proportion of trout in the food deprivation treatment remained in their natal stream, but unlike the cortisol treatment, there were no long-term negative effects of food deprivation on growth, relative to the control. Overall survival rates were comparable between the food deprivation and control treatments, but significantly lower for fish in the cortisol treatment. Food availability and individual energetic state appear to dictate the future life-history strategy (migrate or remain resident) of juvenile salmonids while experimental elevation of the stress hormone cortisol causes impaired growth and reduced survival of both resident and migratory individuals.


Functional morphology of tarsal adhesive pads and attachment ability in ticks Ixodes ricinus (Arachnida, Acari, Ixodidae)
The presence of well-developed, elastic claws on ticks and widely pilose hosts led us to hypothesise that ticks are mostly adapted to attachment and locomotion on rough, strongly corrugated and hairy, felt-like substrates. However, by using a combination of morphological and experimental approaches, we visualised the ultrastructure of attachment devices of Ixodes ricinus and showed that this species adheres more strongly to smooth surfaces than to rough ones. Between paired, elongated, curved, elastic claws, I. ricinus bears a large, flexible, foldable adhesive pad, which represents an adaptation to adhesion on smooth surfaces. Accordingly, ticks attached strongest to glass and to surface profiles similar to those of the human skin, generating safety factors (attachment force relative to body weight) up to 534 (females). Considerably lower attachment force was found on silicone substrates and as a result of thanatosis after jolting.


Characterising multi-level effects of acute pressure exposure on a shallow-water invertebrate: insights into the kinetics and hierarchy of the stress response
Hydrostatic pressure is an important, ubiquitous, environmental variable of particular relevance in the marine environment. However, it is widely overlooked despite recent evidence that some marine ectotherms may be demonstrating climate-driven bathymetric range shifts. Wide-ranging effects of increased hydrostatic pressure have been observed from the molecular through to the behavioural level. Still, no study has simultaneously examined these multiple levels of organisation in a single experiment in order to understand the kinetics, hierarchy and interconnected nature of such responses during an acute exposure, and over a subsequent recovery period. Here, we quantify the transcription of a set of previously characterised genes during and after acute pressure exposure in adults of the shrimp Palaemonetes varians. Further, we perform respiratory rate and behavioural analysis over the same period. Increases in expression of genes associated with stress and metabolism were observed during and after high-pressure exposure. Respiratory rate increased during exposure and into the recovery period. Finally, differential behaviour was observed under elevated hydrostatic pressure in comparison to ambient pressure. Characterising generalised responses to acute elevated pressure is a vital precursor to longer-term, acclimation-based pressure studies. Results provide a novel insight into what we term the overall stress response (OSR) to elevated pressure; a concept that we suggest to be applicable to other environmental stressors. We highlight the importance of considering more than a single component of the stress response in physiological studies, particularly in an era where environmental multi-stressor studies are proliferating.


Sea urchins in a high-CO2 world: partitioned effects of body size, ocean warming and acidification on metabolic rate
Body size and temperature are the major factors explaining metabolic rate, and the additional factor of pH is a major driver at the biochemical level. These three factors have frequently been found to interact, complicating the formulation of broad models predicting metabolic rates and hence ecological functioning. In this first study of the effects of warming and ocean acidification, and their potential interaction, on metabolic rate across a broad range in body size (two to three orders of magnitude difference in body mass), we addressed the impact of climate change on the sea urchin Heliocidaris erythrogramma in context with climate projections for southeast Australia, an ocean warming hotspot. Urchins were gradually introduced to two temperatures (18 and 23°C) and two pH levels (7.5 and 8.0), at which they were maintained for 2 months. Identical experimental trials separated by several weeks validated the fact that a new physiological steady state had been reached, otherwise known as acclimation. The relationship between body size, temperature and acidification on the metabolic rate of H. erythrogramma was strikingly stable. Both stressors caused increases in metabolic rate: 20% for temperature and 19% for pH. Combined effects were additive: a 44% increase in metabolism. Body size had a highly stable relationship with metabolic rate regardless of temperature or pH. None of these diverse drivers of metabolism interacted or modulated the effects of the others, highlighting the partitioned nature of how each influences metabolic rate, and the importance of achieving a full acclimation state. Despite these increases in energetic demand there was very limited capacity for compensatory modulating of feeding rate; food consumption increased only in the very smallest specimens, and only in response to temperature, and not pH. Our data show that warming, acidification and body size all substantially affect metabolism and are highly consistent and partitioned in their effects, and for H. erythrogramma, near-future climate change will incur a substantial energetic cost.


Sticklebacks adapted to divergent osmotic environments show differences in plasticity for kidney morphology and candidate gene expression
Novel physiological challenges in different environments can promote the evolution of divergent phenotypes, either through plastic or genetic changes. Environmental salinity serves as a key barrier to the distribution of nearly all aquatic organisms, and species diversification is likely to be enabled by adaptation to alternative osmotic environments. The threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) is a euryhaline species with populations found both in marine and freshwater environments. It has evolved both highly plastic and locally adapted phenotypes due to salinity-derived selection, but the physiological and genetic basis of adaptation to salinity is not fully understood. We integrated comparative cellular morphology of the kidney, a key organ for osmoregulation, and candidate gene expression to explore the underpinnings of evolved variation in osmotic plasticity within two populations of sticklebacks from distinct salinity zones in the Baltic Sea: the high salinity Kattegat, representative of the ancestral marine habitat; and the low salinity Bay of Bothnia. A common-garden experiment revealed that kidney morphology in the ancestral high-salinity population had a highly plastic response to salinity conditions whereas this plastic response was reduced in the low-salinity population. Candidate gene expression in kidney tissue revealed a similar pattern of population-specific differences, with a higher degree of plasticity in the native high-salinity population. Together these results suggest that renal cellular morphology has become canalized to low salinity, and that these structural differences may have functional implications for osmoregulation.


The sphingosine rheostat is involved in the cnidarian heat stress response but not necessarily in bleaching
Sphingolipids play important roles in mitigating cellular heat and oxidative stress by altering membrane fluidity, receptor clustering and gene expression. Accumulation of signaling sphingolipids that comprise the sphingosine rheostat, pro-apoptotic sphingosine (Sph) and pro-survival sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) is key to determining cell fate. Reef-building corals and other symbiotic cnidarians living in shallow tropical waters can experience elevated seawater temperature and high UV irradiance, two stressors that are increasing in frequency and severity with climate change. In symbiotic cnidarians, these stressors disrupt the photosynthetic machinery of the endosymbiont and ultimately result in the collapse of the partnership (dysbiosis), known as cnidarian bleaching. In a previous study, exogenously applied sphingolipids altered heat-induced bleaching in the symbiotic anemone Aiptasia pallida, but endogenous regulation of these lipids is unknown. Here, we characterized the role of the rheostat in the cnidarian heat stress response (HSR) and in dysbiosis. Gene expression of rheostat enzymes sphingosine kinase (AP-SPHK) and S1P phosphatase (AP-SGPP), and concentrations of sphingolipids were quantified from anemones incubated at elevated temperatures. We observed a biphasic HSR in A. pallida. At early exposure, rheostat gene expression and lipid levels were suppressed while gene expression of a heat stress biomarker increased and 40% of symbionts were lost. After longer incubations at the highest temperature, AP-SGPP and then Sph levels both increased. These results indicate that the sphingosine rheostat in A. pallida does not participate in initiation of dysbiosis, but instead functions in the chronic response to prolonged heat stress that promotes host survival.


Heat transfer in fish: are short excursions between habitats a thermoregulatory behaviour to exploit resources in an unfavourable thermal environment?
Temperature is the primary environmental factor affecting physiological processes in ectotherms. Heat-transfer models describe how the fish's internal temperature responds to a fluctuating thermal environment. Specifically, the rate coefficient (k), defined as the instantaneous rate of change in body temperature in relation to the difference between ambient and body temperature, summarizes the combined effects of direct thermal conduction through body mass, passive convection (intracellular and intercellular fluids) and forced convective heat transfer (cardiovascular system). The k-coefficient is widely used in fish ecology to understand how body temperature responds to changes in water temperature. The main objective of this study was to estimate the k-coefficient of brook charr equipped with internal temperature-sensitive transmitters in controlled laboratory experiments. Fish were first transferred from acclimation tanks (10°C) to tanks at 14, 19 or 23°C (warming experiments) and were then returned to the acclimation tanks (10°C; cooling experiments), thus producing six step changes in ambient temperature. We used non-linear mixed models to estimate the k-coefficient. Model comparisons indicated that the model incorporating the k-coefficient as a function of absolute temperature difference (dT: 4, 9 and 13°C) best described body temperature change. By simulating body temperature in a heterogeneous thermal environment, we provide theoretical predictions of maximum excursion duration between feeding and resting areas. Our simulations suggest that short (i.e. <60 min) excursions could be a common thermoregulatory behaviour adopted by cold freshwater fish species to sustain body temperature below a critical temperature threshold, enabling them to exploit resources in an unfavourable thermal environment.


Transcriptomic responses to environmental temperature in eurythermal and stenothermal fishes
Ectothermic species like fishes differ greatly in the thermal ranges they tolerate; some eurythermal species may encounter temperature ranges in excess of 25°C, whereas stenothermal species in polar and tropical waters live at essentially constant temperatures. Thermal specialization comes with fitness trade-offs and as temperature increases due to global warming, the physiological basis of specialization and thermal plasticity has become of great interest. Over the past 50 years, comparative physiologists have studied the physiological and molecular differences between stenothermal and eurythermal fishes. It is now well known that many stenothermal fishes have lost an inducible heat shock response (HSR). Recent advances in transcriptomics have now made it possible to examine genome-wide changes in gene expression (GE) in non-model ecologically important fish, broadening our view beyond the HSR to regulation of genes involved in hundreds of other cellular processes. Here, we review the major findings from transcriptomic studies of extreme eurythermal and stenothermal fishes in response to acute and long-term exposure to temperature, both time scales being critically important for predicting climate change responses. We consider possible molecular adaptations that underlie eurythermy and stenothermy in teleosts. Furthermore, we highlight the challenges that still face the field of comparative environmental genomics and suggest fruitful paths of future investigation.


Proteomic responses to environmentally induced oxidative stress
Environmental (acute and chronic temperature, osmotic, hypoxic and pH) stress challenges the cellular redox balance and can lead to the increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). This review provides an overview of the reactions producing and scavenging ROS in the mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and peroxisome. It then compares these reactions with the findings of a number of studies investigating the proteomic responses of marine organisms to environmentally induced oxidative stress. These responses indicate that the thioredoxin–peroxiredoxin system is possibly more frequently recruited to scavenge H2O2 than the glutathione system. Isoforms of superoxide dismutase (SOD) are not ubiquitously induced in parallel, suggesting that SOD scavenging activity is sometimes sufficient. The glutathione system plays an important role in some organisms and probably also contributes to protecting protein thiols during environmental stress. Synthesis pathways of cysteine and selenocysteine, building blocks for glutathione and glutathione peroxidase, also play an important role in scavenging ROS during stress. The increased abundance of glutaredoxin and DyP-type peroxidase suggests a need for regulating the deglutathionylation of proteins and scavenging of peroxynitrite. Reducing equivalents for these scavenging reactions are generated by proteins of the pentose phosphate pathway and by NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase. Furthermore, proteins representing reactions of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and the electron transport system generating NADH and ROS, including those of complex I, II and III, are frequently reduced in abundance with stress. Protein maturation in the ER likely represents another source of ROS during environmental stress, as indicated by simultaneous changes in ER chaperones and antioxidant proteins. Although there are still too few proteomic analyses of non-model organisms exposed to environmental stress for a general pattern to emerge, hyposaline and low pH stress show different responses from temperature and hypoxic stress. Furthermore, comparisons of closely related congeners differing in stress tolerance start to provide insights into biochemical processes contributing to adaptive differences, but more of these comparisons are needed to draw general conclusions. To fully take advantage of a systems approach, studies with longer time courses, including several tissues and more species comparisons are needed.


Metabolite profiling of symbiont and host during thermal stress and bleaching in a model cnidarian–dinoflagellate symbiosis
Bleaching (dinoflagellate symbiont loss) is one of the greatest threats facing coral reefs. The functional cnidarian–dinoflagellate symbiosis, which forms coral reefs, is based on the bi-directional exchange of nutrients. During thermal stress this exchange breaks down; however, major gaps remain in our understanding of the roles of free metabolite pools in symbiosis and homeostasis. In this study we applied gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to explore thermally induced changes in intracellular pools of amino and non-amino organic acids in each partner of the model sea anemone Aiptasia sp. and its dinoflagellate symbiont. Elevated temperatures (32°C for 6 days) resulted in symbiont photoinhibition and bleaching. Thermal stress induced distinct changes in the metabolite profiles of both partners, associated with alterations to central metabolism, oxidative state, cell structure, biosynthesis and signalling. Principally, we detected elevated pools of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in the symbiont, indicative of modifications to lipogenesis/lysis, membrane structure and nitrogen assimilation. In contrast, reductions of multiple PUFAs were detected in host pools, indicative of increased metabolism, peroxidation and/or reduced translocation of these groups. Accumulations of glycolysis intermediates were also observed in both partners, associated with photoinhibition and downstream reductions in carbohydrate metabolism. Correspondingly, we detected accumulations of amino acids and intermediate groups in both partners, with roles in gluconeogenesis and acclimation responses to oxidative stress. These data further our understanding of cellular responses to thermal stress in the symbiosis and generate hypotheses relating to the secondary roles of a number of compounds in homeostasis and heat-stress resistance.


Warm acclimation improves hypoxia tolerance in Fundulus heteroclitus
Human activities are increasing both the frequency of hypoxic episodes and the mean temperature of aquatic ecosystems, but few studies have considered the possibility that acclimation to one of these stressors could improve the ability to cope with the other stressor. Here, we used Atlantic killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus, to test this hypothesis. Hypoxia tolerance was measured as time to loss of equilibrium in hypoxia (LOEhyp) at 0.4 kPa oxygen. Time to LOEhyp declined from 73.3±6.9 min at 15°C to 2.6±3.8 min at 23°C, and at 30°C no fish could withstand this level of hypoxia. Prior acclimation to warm temperatures significantly increased time to LOEhyp. Hypoxia tolerance of the southern subspecies of killifish, F. heteroclitus heteroclitus, was greater than that of the northern subspecies, F. heteroclitus macrolepidotus, measured both as critical oxygen tension (Pcrit) and as time to LOEhyp. Warm acclimation offset the negative effects of temperature on time to LOEhyp to a similar extent in the two subspecies. Warm acclimation increased total lamellar surface area of the gill in both subspecies as a result of regression of an interlamellar cell mass (ILCM). However, differences in total lamellar surface area could not explain differences in time to LOEhyp between the subspecies, suggesting that the lower time to LOEhyp of northern fish is related to their higher routine metabolic rate. These data suggest that thermal plasticity in gill morphology can improve the capacity of this species to tolerate hypoxia, and shows how existing plasticity may help organisms to cope with the complex interacting stressors that they will encounter with increasing frequency as our climate changes.


Fish embryos on land: terrestrial embryo deposition lowers oxygen uptake without altering growth or survival in the amphibious fish Kryptolebias marmoratus
Few teleost fishes incubate embryos out of water, but the oxygen-rich terrestrial environment could provide advantages for early growth and development. We tested the hypothesis that embryonic oxygen uptake is limited in aquatic environments relative to air using the self-fertilizing amphibious mangrove rivulus, Kryptolebias marmoratus, which typically inhabits hypoxic, water-filled crab burrows. We found that adult mangrove rivulus released twice as many embryos in terrestrial versus aquatic environments and that air-reared embryos had accelerated developmental rates. Surprisingly, air-reared embryos consumed 44% less oxygen and possessed larger yolk reserves, but attained the same mass, length and chorion thickness. Water-reared embryos moved their opercula ∼2.5 more times per minute compared with air-reared embryos at 7 days post-release, which probably contributed to the higher rates of oxygen uptake and yolk utilization we observed. Genetically identical air- and water-reared embryos from the same parent were raised to maturity, but the embryonic environment did not affect growth, reproduction or emersion ability in adults. Therefore, although aspects of early development were plastic, these early differences were not sustained into adulthood. Kryptolebias marmoratus embryos hatched out of water when exposed to aerial hypoxia. We conclude that exposure to a terrestrial environment reduces the energetic costs of development partly by reducing the necessity of embryonic movements to dispel stagnant boundary layers. Terrestrial incubation of young would be especially beneficial to amphibious fishes that occupy aquatic habitats of poor water quality, assuming low terrestrial predation and desiccation risks.


Chromogenic behaviors of the Humboldt squid (Dosidicus gigas) studied in situ with an animal-borne video package
Dosidicus gigas (Humboldt or jumbo flying squid) is an economically and ecologically influential species, yet little is known about its natural behaviors because of difficulties in studying this active predator in its oceanic environment. By using an animal-borne video package, National Geographic's Crittercam, we were able to observe natural behaviors in free-swimming D. gigas in the Gulf of California with a focus on color-generating (chromogenic) behaviors. We documented two dynamic displays without artificial lighting at depths of up to 70 m. One dynamic pattern, termed ‘flashing' is characterized by a global oscillation (2–4 Hz) of body color between white and red. Flashing was almost always observed when other squid were visible in the video frame, and this behavior presumably represents intraspecific signaling. Amplitude and frequency of flashing can be modulated, and the phase relationship with another squid can also be rapidly altered. Another dynamic display termed ‘flickering’ was observed whenever flashing was not occurring. This behavior is characterized by irregular wave-like activity in neighboring patches of chromatophores, and the resulting patterns mimic reflections of down-welled light in the water column, suggesting that this behavior may provide a dynamic type of camouflage. Rapid and global pauses in flickering, often before a flashing episode, indicate that flickering is under inhibitory neural control. Although flashing and flickering have not been described in other squid, functional similarities are evident with other species.


The flexible clock: predictive and reactive homeostasis, energy balance and the circadian regulation of sleep–wake timing
The Darwinian fitness of mammals living in a rhythmic environment depends on endogenous daily (circadian) rhythms in behavior and physiology. Here, we discuss the mechanisms underlying the circadian regulation of physiology and behavior in mammals. We also review recent efforts to understand circadian flexibility, such as how the phase of activity and rest is altered depending on the encountered environment. We explain why shifting activity to the day is an adaptive strategy to cope with energetic challenges and show how this can reduce thermoregulatory costs. A framework is provided to make predictions about the optimal timing of activity and rest of non-model species for a wide range of habitats. This Review illustrates how the timing of daily rhythms is reciprocally linked to energy homeostasis, and it highlights the importance of this link in understanding daily rhythms in physiology and behavior.


Repeatability of metabolic rate is lower for animals living under field versus laboratory conditions
Metabolic rate has been linked to several components of fitness and is both heritable and repeatable to a certain extent. However, its repeatability can differ among studies, even after controlling for the time interval between measurements. Some of this variation in repeatability might be due to the relative stability of the environmental conditions in which the animals are living between measurements. We compared published repeatability estimates for basal, resting and maximum metabolic rate from studies of endotherms living in the laboratory with those living in the wild during the interval between measurements. We found that repeatability declines over time, as demonstrated previously, but show for the first time that estimates from free-living animals are also considerably lower than those from animals living under more stable laboratory conditions.


Decision making and preferences for acoustic signals in choice situations by female crickets
Multiple attributes usually have to be assessed when choosing a mate. Efficient choice of the best mate is complicated if the available cues are not positively correlated, as is often the case during acoustic communication. Because of varying distances of signalers, a female may be confronted with signals of diverse quality at different intensities. Here, we examined how available cues are weighted for a decision by female crickets. Two songs with different temporal patterns and/or sound intensities were presented in a choice paradigm and compared with female responses from a no-choice test. When both patterns were presented at equal intensity, preference functions became wider in choice situations compared with a no-choice paradigm. When the stimuli in two-choice tests were presented at different intensities, this effect was counteracted as preference functions became narrower compared with choice tests using stimuli of equal intensity. The weighting of intensity differences depended on pattern quality and was therefore non-linear. A simple computational model based on pattern and intensity cues reliably predicted female decisions. A comparison of processing schemes suggested that the computations for pattern recognition and directionality are performed in a network with parallel topology. However, the computational flow of information corresponded to serial processing.


Transcriptome profiling reveals mechanisms for the evolution of insect seasonality
Rapid evolutionary change in seasonal timing can facilitate ecological speciation and resilience to climate warming. However, the molecular mechanisms behind shifts in animal seasonality are still unclear. Evolved differences in seasonality occur in the European corn borer moth (Ostrinia nubilalis), in which early summer emergence in E-strain adults and later summer emergence in Z-strain adults is explained by a shift in the length of the termination phase of larval diapause. Here, we sample from the developmental time course of diapause in both strains and use transcriptome sequencing to profile regulatory and amino acid changes associated with timing divergence. Within a previously defined quantitative trait locus (QTL), we nominate 48 candidate genes, including several in the insulin signaling and circadian rhythm pathways. Genome-wide transcriptional activity is negligible during the extended Z-strain termination, whereas shorter E-strain termination is characterized by a rapid burst of regulatory changes involved in resumption of the cell cycle, hormone production and stress response. Although gene expression during diapause termination in Ostrinia is similar to that found previously in flies, nominated genes for shifts in timing are species specific. Hence, across distant relatives the evolution of insect seasonality appears to involve unique genetic switches that direct organisms into distinct phases of the diapause pathway through wholesale restructuring of conserved gene regulatory networks.


Proteomic data reveal a physiological basis for costs and benefits associated with thermal acclimation
Physiological adaptation through acclimation is one way to cope with temperature changes. Biochemical studies on acclimation responses in ectotherms have so far mainly investigated consequences of short-term acclimation at the adult stage and focussed on adaptive responses. Here, we assessed the consequences of rearing Drosophila melanogaster at low (12°C), benign (25°C) and high (31°C) temperatures. We assessed cold and heat tolerance and obtained detailed proteomic profiles of flies from the three temperatures. The proteomic profiles provided a holistic understanding of the underlying biology associated with both adaptive and non-adaptive temperature responses. Results show strong benefits and costs across tolerances: rearing at low temperature increased adult cold tolerance and decreased adult heat tolerance and vice versa with development at high temperatures. In the proteomic analysis, we were able to identify and quantify a large number of proteins compared with previous studies on ectotherms (1440 proteins across all replicates and rearing regimes), enabling us to extend the proteomic approach using enrichment analyses. This gave us detailed information on individual proteins, as well as pathways affected by rearing temperature, pinpointing potential mechanisms responsible for the strong costs and benefits of rearing temperature on functional phenotypes. Several well-known heat shock proteins, as well as proteins not previously associated with thermal stress, were among the differentially expressed proteins. Upregulation of proteasome proteins was found to be an important adaptive process at high-stress rearing temperatures, and occurs at the expense of downregulation of basal metabolic functions.


Consequences of calcium decline on the embryogenesis and life history of Daphnia magna
Ambient calcium is declining in thousands of soft-water lake habitats in temperate regions as a consequence of unsustainable forestry practices, decreased atmospheric calcium deposition and acidic deposition. As their exoskeleton is heavily reinforced with calcium, freshwater crustaceans have a high specific calcium requirement relative to other aquatic organisms. Daphnia, in particular, is an ideal crustacean for investigating the consequences of calcium decline because it is an abundant and important member of freshwater zooplankton communities. Although it has been established that adult and juvenile Daphnia have different tolerances to low ambient calcium as a result of their different life stage-specific calcium requirements, the consequences of declining calcium on embryonic development have never been investigated. Here, we describe the distribution of calcium in embryonic stages of D. magna and introduce a novel and easy to use staging scheme. We tested whether calcium can be traced from mothers to their offspring. Finally, we assessed the fitness consequences of maternal provisioning in limiting calcium environments. We found that while embryos require calcium for their development and moulting, they do not equilibrate with environmental calcium levels. Instead, we were able to trace calcium from mothers to their offspring. Furthermore, our data strongly suggest that females are faced with an allocation trade-off between providing calcium to their offspring and using it for growth and moulting. Together, these data provide novel insights into the consequences of calcium decline for freshwater zooplankton.


Temperature-dependent benefits of bacterial exposure in embryonic development of Daphnia magna resting eggs
The environments in which animals develop and evolve are profoundly shaped by bacteria, which affect animals both indirectly through their role in biogeochemical processes and directly through antagonistic or beneficial interactions. The outcomes of these activities can differ according to environmental context. In a series of laboratory experiments with diapausing eggs of the water flea Daphnia magna, we manipulated two environmental parameters, temperature and presence of bacteria, and examined their effect on development. At elevated temperatures (≥26°C), resting eggs developing without live bacteria had reduced hatching success and correspondingly higher rates of severe morphological abnormalities compared with eggs with bacteria in their environment. The beneficial effect of bacteria was strongly reduced at 20°C. Neither temperature nor the presence of bacteria affected directly developing parthenogenetic eggs. The mechanistic basis of this effect of bacteria on development is unclear, but these results highlight the complex interplay of biotic and abiotic factors influencing animal development after diapause.


Discrimination of fast click-series produced by tagged Risso's dolphins (Grampus griseus) for echolocation or communication
Early studies that categorized odontocete pulsed sounds had few means of discriminating signals used for biosonar-based foraging from those used for communication. This capability to identify the function of sounds is important for understanding and interpreting behavior; it is also essential for monitoring and mitigating potential disturbance from human activities. Archival tags were placed on free-ranging Grampus griseus to quantify and discriminate between pulsed sounds used for echolocation-based foraging and those used for communication. Two types of rapid click-series pulsed sounds, buzzes and burst pulses, were identified as produced by the tagged dolphins and classified using a Gaussian mixture model based on their duration, association with jerk (i.e. rapid change of acceleration) and temporal association with click trains. Buzzes followed regular echolocation clicks and coincided with a strong jerk signal from accelerometers on the tag. They consisted of series averaging 359±210 clicks (mean±s.d.) with an increasing repetition rate and relatively low amplitude. Burst pulses consisted of relatively short click series averaging 45±54 clicks with decreasing repetition rate and longer inter-click interval that were less likely to be associated with regular echolocation and the jerk signal. These results suggest that the longer, relatively lower amplitude, jerk-associated buzzes are used in this species to capture prey, mostly during the bottom phase of foraging dives, as seen in other odontocetes. In contrast, the shorter, isolated burst pulses that are generally emitted by the dolphins while at or near the surface are used outside of a direct, known foraging context.


The effects of temperature on aerobic metabolism: towards a mechanistic understanding of the responses of ectotherms to a changing environment
Because of its profound effects on the rates of biological processes such as aerobic metabolism, environmental temperature plays an important role in shaping the distribution and abundance of species. As temperature increases, the rate of metabolism increases and then rapidly declines at higher temperatures – a response that can be described using a thermal performance curve (TPC). Although the shape of the TPC for aerobic metabolism is often attributed to the competing effects of thermodynamics, which can be described using the Arrhenius equation, and the effects of temperature on protein stability, this account represents an over-simplification of the factors acting even at the level of single proteins. In addition, it cannot adequately account for the effects of temperature on complex multistep processes, such as aerobic metabolism, that rely on mechanisms acting across multiple levels of biological organization. The purpose of this review is to explore our current understanding of the factors that shape the TPC for aerobic metabolism in response to acute changes in temperature, and to highlight areas where this understanding is weak or insufficient. Developing a more strongly grounded mechanistic model to account for the shape of the TPC for aerobic metabolism is crucial because these TPCs are the foundation of several recent attempts to predict the responses of species to climate change, including the metabolic theory of ecology and the hypothesis of oxygen and capacity-limited thermal tolerance.


Specialized primary feathers produce tonal sounds during flight in rock pigeons (Columba livia)
For centuries, naturalists have suggested that the tonal elements of pigeon wing sounds may be sonations (non-vocal acoustic signals) of alarm. However, spurious tonal sounds may be produced passively as a result of aeroelastic flutter in the flight feathers of almost all birds. Using mechanistic criteria emerging from recent work on sonations, we sought to: (1) identify characteristics of rock pigeon flight feathers that might be adapted for sound production rather than flight, and (2) provide evidence that this morphology is necessary for in vivo sound production and is sufficient to replicate in vivo sounds. Pigeons produce tonal sounds (700±50 Hz) during the latter two-thirds of each downstroke during take-off. These tones are produced when a small region of long, curved barbs on the inner vane of the outermost primary feather (P10) aeroelastically flutters. Tones were silenced in live birds when we experimentally increased the stiffness of this region to prevent flutter. Isolated P10 feathers were sufficient to reproduce in vivo sounds when spun at the peak angular velocity of downstroke (53.9–60.3 rad s−1), but did not produce tones at average downstroke velocity (31.8 rad s−1), whereas P9 and P1 feathers never produced tones. P10 feathers had significantly lower coefficients of resultant aerodynamic force (CR) when spun at peak angular velocity than at average angular velocity, revealing that production of tonal sounds incurs an aerodynamic cost. P9 and P1 feathers did not show this difference in CR. These mechanistic results suggest that the tonal sounds produced by P10 feathers are not incidental and may function in communication.


Structure of the thoracic spiracular valves and their contribution to unidirectional gas exchange in flying blowflies Calliphora vicina
The operation of the thoracic spiracular valves was analysed using anatomical and physiological techniques. Dense spiracular filter trichomes impede a diffusive gas exchange. However, the hinged posterior filter flap of the metathoracic spiracle (Sp2) opens passively during upstroke of the wings and closes by the suction of the sub-atmospheric tracheal pressure during the downstroke, which supports a unidirectional respiratory airflow. The action of the interior spiracular valve lids was recorded by photocell sensors oriented above the enlarged spiracles and projected onto the screen of a video camera. The thoracic spiracles opened much quicker (approximately 0.1 s) than they closed (1 s), suggesting that the spiracular muscles are openers, as confirmed by experimental induction of muscle contraction. Simultaneous photocell measurement revealed that the first and second thoracic spiracles act concordantly. At rest, the spiracles were mostly closed or only slightly open (<1%). During intermittent short flights, the valves opened wide at the start of the flight for a short time, and in many cases opened again after the flight ended. Often, the opening was wider after the flight ended than during the flight itself. During long spontaneous continuous flight phases (up to 2 h), the valves were only slightly open (<5%), widening shortly after transient increases of wing stroke intensity. It is an amazing paradox that the spiracles were only slightly open when the requirement for O2 was high during sustained flight. The advantage of generating sub-atmospheric pressure, supporting a unidirectional airflow with a PO2 increase above the resting level, is discussed.


Physostomous channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus, modify swimming mode and buoyancy based on flow conditions
The employment of gliding in aquatic animals as a means of conserving energy has been theoretically predicted and discussed for decades. Several studies have shown that some species glide, whereas others do not. Freshwater fish species that widely inhabit both lentic and lotic environments are thought to be able to adapt to fluctuating flow conditions in terms of locomotion. In adapting to the different functional demands of lentic and lotic environments on fish energetics, physostomous (open swim bladder) fish may optimise their locomotion and activity by controlling their net buoyancy; however, few buoyancy studies have been conducted on physostomous fish in the wild. We deployed accelerometers on free-ranging channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus, in both lentic and lotic environments to quantify their swimming activity, and to determine their buoyancy condition preferences and whether gliding conserves energy. Individual comparisons of swimming efforts between ascent and descent phases revealed that all fish in the lentic environment had negative buoyancy. However, all individuals showed many descents without gliding phases, which was contrary to the behaviour predicted to minimise the cost of transport. The fact that significantly fewer gliding phases were observed in the lotic environment, together with the existence of neutrally buoyant fish, indicated that channel catfish seem to optimise their locomotion through buoyancy control based on flow conditions. The buoyancy optimisation of channel catfish relative to the flow conditions that they inhabit not only reflects differences in swimming behaviour but also provides new insights into the adaptation of physostome fish species to various freshwater environments.


Effects of elevated carbon dioxide and temperature on locomotion and the repeatability of lateralization in a keystone marine mollusc
Recent work has shown that the behaviour of marine organisms can be affected by elevated PCO2, although little is known about the effect of multiple stressors. We therefore investigated the effect of elevated PCO2 and temperature on locomotion and behaviour during prey searching in the marine gastropod Concholepas concholepas, a predator characteristic of the southeastern Pacific coast. Movement duration, decision time, route finding and lateralization were measured using a T-maze tank with a prey positioned behind a barrier. Four treatments, representing present day and near-future scenarios of ocean acidification and warming were used in rearing the individuals for 6 months. Regardless of the treatment, no significant differences were found in relative and absolute lateralization before and after exposure for 6 months. However, relative lateralization was not repeatable for animals tested after 6 months at elevated PCO2 at both experimental temperatures, whereas it was repeatable in individuals kept at the present day level of PCO2. We suggest that these effects may be related to a behavioural malfunction caused by elevated PCO2. Movement duration, decision time and route finding were not repeatable. However, movement duration and decision time increased and route finding decreased in elevated PCO2 (at 15°C), suggesting that elevated PCO2 has negative effects on the locomotor and sensory performance of C. concholepas in the presence of a prey odour, thereby decreasing their ability to forage efficiently.


Evidence for partial overlap of male olfactory cues in lampreys
Animals rely on a mosaic of complex information to find and evaluate mates. Pheromones, often consisting of multiple components, are considered to be particularly important for species-recognition in many species. Although the evolution of species-specific pheromone blends is well described in many insects, very few vertebrate pheromones have been studied in a macro-evolutionary context. Here, we report a phylogenetic comparison of multi-component male odours that guide reproduction in lampreys. Chemical profiling of sexually mature males from eleven species of lamprey, representing six of ten genera and two of three families, indicated that the chemical profiles of sexually mature male odours are partially shared among species. Behavioural assays conducted with four species sympatric in the Laurentian Great Lakes indicated asymmetric female responses to heterospecific odours, where Petromyzon marinus were attracted to male odour collected from all species tested, but other species generally preferred only the odour of conspecifics. Electro-olfactogram recordings from P. marinus indicated that although P. marinus exhibited behavioural responses to odours from males of all species, at least some of the compounds that elicited olfactory responses were different in conspecific male odours compared with heterospecific male odours. We conclude that some of the compounds released by sexually mature males are shared among species and elicit olfactory and behavioural responses in P. marinus, and suggest that our results provide evidence for partial overlap of male olfactory cues among lampreys. Further characterization of the chemical identities of odour components is needed to confirm shared pheromones among species.


Juveniles of Lymnaea ‘smart’ snails do not perseverate and have the capacity to form LTM
Previously, it was concluded that the nervous systems of juvenile snails were not capable of mediating long-term memory (LTM). However, exposure and training of those juvenile snails in the presence of a predator cue significantly altered their ability to learn and form LTM. In addition, there are some strains of Lymnaea which have been identified as ‘smart’. These snails form LTM significantly better than the lab-bred strain. Here, we show that juveniles of two smart snail strains not only are capable of associative learning but also have the capacity to form LTM following a single 0.5 h training session. We also show that freshly collected ‘wild’ ‘average’ juveniles are also not able to form LTM. Thus, the smart snail phenotype in these strains is expressed in juveniles.


The fallacy of the average: on the ubiquity, utility and continuing novelty of Jensen's inequality
Biologists often cope with variation in physiological, environmental and ecological processes by measuring how living systems perform under average conditions. However, performance at average conditions is seldom equal to average performance across a range of conditions. This basic property of nonlinear averaging – known as ‘Jensen's inequality’ or ‘the fallacy of the average’ – has important implications for all of biology. For instance, a burgeoning awareness of Jensen's inequality has improved our ability to predict how plants and animals will respond to a warmer and more variable future climate. But for many biologists, the fallacy of the average is still a novel concept. Here, I highlight the importance of Jensen's inequality, provide a simple graphical approach to understanding its effects, and explore its consequences at atomic, molecular, organismal and ecological levels.


Measuring metabolic rates of small terrestrial organisms by fluorescence-based closed-system respirometry
We explore a recent, innovative variation of closed-system respirometry for terrestrial organisms, whereby oxygen partial pressure (PO2) is repeatedly measured fluorometrically in a constant-volume chamber over multiple time points. We outline a protocol that aligns this technology with the broader literature on aerial respirometry, including the calculations required to accurately convert O2 depletion to metabolic rate (MR). We identify a series of assumptions, and sources of error associated with this technique, including thresholds where O2 depletion becomes limiting, that impart errors to the calculation and interpretation of MR. Using these adjusted calculations, we found that the resting MR of five species of angiosperm seeds ranged from 0.011 to 0.640 ml g−1 h−1, consistent with published seed MR values. This innovative methodology greatly expands the lower size limit of terrestrial organisms that can be measured, and offers the potential for measuring MR changes over time as a result of physiological processes of the organism.


Mussel adhesion – essential footwork
Robust adhesion to wet, salt-encrusted, corroded and slimy surfaces has been an essential adaptation in the life histories of sessile marine organisms for hundreds of millions of years, but it remains a major impasse for technology. Mussel adhesion has served as one of many model systems providing a fundamental understanding of what is required for attachment to wet surfaces. Most polymer engineers have focused on the use of 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-l-alanine (Dopa), a peculiar but abundant catecholic amino acid in mussel adhesive proteins. The premise of this Review is that although Dopa does have the potential for diverse cohesive and adhesive interactions, these will be difficult to achieve in synthetic homologs without a deeper knowledge of mussel biology; that is, how, at different length and time scales, mussels regulate the reactivity of their adhesive proteins. To deposit adhesive proteins onto target surfaces, the mussel foot creates an insulated reaction chamber with extreme reaction conditions such as low pH, low ionic strength and high reducing poise. These conditions enable adhesive proteins to undergo controlled fluid–fluid phase separation, surface adsorption and spreading, microstructure formation and, finally, solidification.


Aquatic acidification: a mechanism underpinning maintained oxygen transport and performance in fish experiencing elevated carbon dioxide conditions
Aquatic acidification, caused by elevating levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2), is increasing in both freshwater and marine ecosystems worldwide. However, few studies have examined how acidification will affect oxygen (O2) transport and, therefore, performance in fishes. Although data are generally lacking, the majority of fishes investigated in this meta-analysis exhibited no effect of elevated CO2 at the level of O2 uptake, suggesting that they are able to maintain metabolic performance during a period of acidosis. Notably, the mechanisms that fish employ to maintain performance and O2 uptake have yet to be verified. Here, we summarize current data related to one recently proposed mechanism underpinning the maintenance of O2 uptake during exposure to aquatic acidification, and reveal knowledge gaps that could be targeted for future research. Most studies have examined O2 uptake rates while fishes were resting and did not calculate aerobic scope, even though aerobic scope can aid in predicting changes to whole-animal metabolic performance. Furthermore, research is lacking on different age classes, freshwater species and elasmobranchs, all of which might be impacted by future acidification conditions. Finally, this Review further seeks to emphasize the importance of developing collaborative efforts between molecular, physiological and ecological approaches in order to provide more comprehensive predictions as to how future fish populations will be affected by climate change.


X-ray computed tomography study of the flight-adapted tracheal system in the blowfly Calliphora vicina, analysing the ventilation mechanism and flow-directing valves
Following the discovery of flight motor-driven unidirectional gas exchange with rising PO2 in the blowfly, X-ray computed tomography (CT) was used to visualize the organization of the tracheal system in the anterior body with emphasis on the arrangement of the pathways for airflow. The fly's head is preferentially supplied by cephalic tracheae originating from the ventral orifice of the mesothoracic spiracle (Sp1). The respiratory airflow during flight is a by-product of cyclic deformations of the thoracic box by the flight muscles. The air sacs below the tergal integument (scutum and scutellum) facilitate the respiratory airflow: the shortening of the thorax turns the scutellum and the wings downward and the scutum upward with a volume increase in the scutal air sacs. The resulting negative pressure sucks air from Sp1 through special tracheae towards the scutal air sacs. The airflow is directed by two valves that open alternately: (1) the hinged filter flaps of the metathoracic spiracles (Sp2) are passively pushed open during the upstroke by the increased tracheal pressure, thereby enabling expiration; (2) a newly described tracheal valve-like septum behind the regular spiracular valve lids of Sp1 opens passively and air is sucked in through Sp1 during the downstroke and prevents expiration by closing during the upstroke. This stabilizes the unidirectional airflow. The tracheal volume of the head, thorax and abdomen and their mass were determined. Despite the different anatomy of birds and flies, the unidirectional airflow reveals a comparable efficiency of the temporal throughput in flies and hummingbirds.


High resting metabolic rates with low thermal dependence induce active dives in overwintering Pacific juvenile loggerhead turtles
The metabolic rate and activity of sea turtles generally decreases with decreasing seasonal ambient temperature. Juvenile loggerhead turtles in the Mediterranean Sea made prolonged inactive dives (>400 min), indicating a state of dormancy during the cold winter period. However, seasonal differences in dive duration were not detected in juvenile loggerheads in the western North Pacific, even though the ambient water temperature changed by more than 10°C. Thus, metabolic states might differ among populations, explaining differences in the diving behaviour of juveniles during winter. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the active overwintering behaviour of juvenile loggerheads in the western North Pacific is driven by a high resting metabolic rate (RMR) with low thermal dependence. The RMR of juveniles in the western North Pacific (N=13) was 1.4–5.7 times higher (Q10=1.8) than that of juveniles in the Mediterranean Sea (Q10=5.4). To validate the high RMR values in the western North Pacific, the difference between core body temperature and ambient water temperature (ΔTb) was estimated from measured RMR and was compared with measured ΔTb. The measured and estimated ΔTb matched each other. In addition, most of the dives conducted by the turtles in the western North Pacific were within the calculated aerobic dive limit (cADL) expected from the measured metabolic rate. Our results indicate that high RMR with low thermal dependence induces active diving during the overwintering periods of juvenile loggerheads in the western North Pacific, supporting the suggestion that metabolic states differ among populations.


Flight metabolic rate of Locusta migratoria in relation to oxygen partial pressure in atmospheres of varying diffusivity and density
Flying insects have the highest mass-specific metabolic rate of all animals. Oxygen is supplied to the flight muscles by a combination of diffusion and convection along the internal air-filled tubes of the tracheal system. This study measured maximum flight metabolic rate (FMR) during tethered flight in the migratory locust Locusta migratoria under varying oxygen partial pressure (PO2) in background gas mixtures of nitrogen (N2), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and helium (He), to vary O2 diffusivity and gas mixture density independently. With N2 as the sole background gas (normodiffusive–normodense), mass-independent FMR averaged 132±19 mW g−0.75 at normoxia (PO2=21 kPa), and was not limited by tracheal system conductance, because FMR did not increase in hyperoxia. However, FMR declined immediately with hypoxia, oxy-conforming nearly completely. Thus, the locust respiratory system is matched to maximum functional requirements, with little reserve capacity. With SF6 as the sole background gas (hypodiffusive–hyperdense), the shape of the relationship between FMR and PO2 was similar to that in N2, except that FMR was generally lower (e.g. 24% lower at normoxia). This appeared to be due to increased density of the gas mixture rather than decreased O2 diffusivity, because hyperoxia did not reverse it. Normoxic FMR was not significantly different in He-SF6 (hyperdiffusive–normodense) compared with the N2 background gas, and likewise there was no significant difference between FMR in SF6-He (normodiffusive–hyperdense) compared with the SF6 background gas. The results indicate that convection, not diffusion, is the main mechanism of O2 delivery to the flight muscle of the locust when demand is high.


Oxygen drives skeletal muscle remodeling in an amphibious fish out of water
Skeletal muscle remodeling in response to terrestrial acclimation improves the locomotor performance of some amphibious fishes on land, but the cue for this remodeling is unknown. We tested the hypothesis that muscle remodeling in the amphibious Kryptolebias marmoratus on land is driven by higher O2 availability in atmospheric air, and the alternative hypothesis that remodeling is induced by a different environmental or physiological condition that fish experience on land. Fish were acclimated to 28 days of air, or to aquatic hyperoxia, hypercapnia, hypoxia, elevated temperature or fasting conditions. Air, fasting and hyperoxic conditions increased (>25%) the size of oxidative fibers in K. marmoratus while hypoxia had the reverse effect (23% decrease). Surprisingly, hyperoxia acclimation also resulted in a transformation of the musculature to include large bands of oxidative-like muscle. Our results show that K. marmoratus is highly responsive to environmental O2 levels and capitalizes on O2-rich opportunities to enhance O2 utilization by skeletal muscle.


An evolutionary solution of terrestrial isopods to cope with low atmospheric oxygen levels
The evolution of current terrestrial life was founded by major waves of land invasion coinciding with high atmospheric oxygen content. These waves were followed by periods with substantially reduced oxygen concentration and accompanied by the evolution of novel traits. Reproduction and development are limiting factors for evolutionary water–land transitions, and brood care has probably facilitated land invasion. Peracarid crustaceans provide parental care for their offspring by brooding the early stages within the motherly brood pouch, the marsupium. Terrestrial isopod progeny begin ontogenetic development within the marsupium in water, but conclude development within the marsupium in air. Our results for progeny growth until hatching from the marsupium provide evidence for the limiting effects of oxygen concentration and for a potentially adaptive solution. Inclusion of air within the marsupium compensates for initially constrained growth in water through catch-up growth, and it may explain how terrestrial isopods adapted to short- and long-term changes in oxygen concentration.


Presence and persistence of a highly ordered lipid phase state in the avian stratum corneum
To survive high temperatures in a terrestrial environment, animals must effectively balance evaporative heat loss and water conservation. In passerine birds, cutaneous water loss (CWL) is the primary avenue of water loss at thermoneutral temperatures and increases slightly as ambient temperature increases, indicating a change in the permeability of the skin. In the stratum corneum (SC), the outermost layer of the skin, lipids arranged in layers called lamellae serve as the primary barrier to CWL in birds. The permeability of these lamellae depends in large part on the ability of lipid molecules to pack closely together in an ordered orthorhombic phase state. However, as temperature increases, lipids of the SC become more disordered, and may pack in more permeable hexagonal or liquid crystalline phase states. In this study, we used Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy to monitor the phase state of lipids in the SC of house sparrows (Passer domesticus) at skin temperatures ranging from 25 to 50°C. As temperature increased, lipids became slightly more disordered, but remained predominantly in the orthorhombic phase, consistent with the small increase in CWL observed in house sparrows as ambient temperature increases. These results differ considerably from studies on mammalian SC, which find a predominantly hexagonal arrangement of lipids at temperatures above 37°C, and the increased order in avian SC may be explained by longer lipid chain length, scarcity of cholesterol and the presence of cerebrosides. Our results lend further insight into the arrangement and packing of individual lipid molecules in avian SC.


Maternally derived yolk antioxidants buffer the developing avian embryo against oxidative stress induced by hyperoxia
In oviparous animals, maternally transferred antioxidants protect the embryo from oxidative damage from high rates of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production incurred by rapid growth. Elevated ROS exposure, beyond that incurred by normal growth, can occur as a result of exposure to exogenous factors (e.g. pollutants, toxins, radiation), increasing the risk of oxidative damage, with potentially adverse consequences for embryonic development and long-term fitness. The capacity of the avian embryo's antioxidant protection system to counter an increased exogenous oxidative threat is poorly understood. We induced an external oxidative challenge via experimental increase in ambient oxygen concentration throughout incubation of wild great tit Parus major eggs in the laboratory. At day 11 of incubation, brain tissue revealed no consistent differences in oxidative stress status [as measured by antioxidant levels (superoxide dismutase and total glutathione), lipid peroxidation and telomere length] between control (21% oxygen) and hyperoxic (40% oxygen) embryos. However, the level of vitamin E was significantly lower and lipid peroxidation was significantly higher in yolks of eggs reared under elevated oxygen concentrations. The results suggest that maternally derived yolk antioxidants successfully buffer developing embryonic tissues against an increased exogenous oxidative threat. Furthermore, vitamin E plays a more important role in protecting the embryo than carotenoids. However, the depletion of antioxidants and increased peroxidation of lipids in the yolk could have negative consequences for embryonic development, in particular for the brain and heart that require highly unsaturated fatty acids, and protection against the oxidative burst following hatching.


Hormetic benefits of prior anoxia exposure in buffering anoxia stress in a soil-pupating insect
Oxygen is essential for most animals, and exposure to a complete lack of oxygen, i.e. anoxia, can result in irreparable damage to cells that can extend up to the organismal level to negatively affect performance. Although it is known that brief anoxia exposure may confer cross-tolerance to other stressors, few data exist on the biochemical and organismal consequences of repeated intermittent bouts of anoxia exposure. In nature, the Caribbean fruit fly, Anastrepha suspensa (Diptera: Tephritidae), is frequently exposed to heavy tropical rainfall while pupating in the soil, equating to multiple exposures to hypoxia or anoxia during development. Here, we tested whether prior anoxia exposures during pupal development can induce a beneficial acclimation response, and we explored the consequences of prior exposure for both whole-organism performance and correlated biochemical metrics. Pharate adults (the last developmental stage in the pupal case) were most sensitive to anoxia exposure, showing decreased survival and fertility compared with controls. These negative impacts were ameliorated by exposure to anoxia in earlier pupal developmental stages, indicating a hormetic effect of prior anoxia exposure. Anoxia exposure early in pupal development reduced the oxygen debt repaid after anoxia exposure relative to pharate adults experiencing anoxia for the first time. Lipid levels were highest in all pupal stages when exposed to prior anoxia. Prior anoxia thus benefits organismal performance and relocates resources towards lipid storage throughout pupal–adult development.


Developmental phenotypic plasticity helps bridge stochastic weather events associated with climate change
The slow, inexorable rise in annual average global temperatures and acidification of the oceans are often advanced as consequences of global change. However, many environmental changes, especially those involving weather (as opposed to climate), are often stochastic, variable and extreme, particularly in temperate terrestrial or freshwater habitats. Moreover, few studies of animal and plant phenotypic plasticity employ realistic (i.e. short-term, stochastic) environmental change in their protocols. Here, I posit that the frequently abrupt environmental changes (days, weeks, months) accompanying much longer-term general climate change (e.g. global warming over decades or centuries) require consideration of the true nature of environmental change (as opposed to statistical means) coupled with an expansion of focus to consider developmental phenotypic plasticity. Such plasticity can be in multiple forms – obligatory/facultative, beneficial/deleterious – depending upon the degree and rate of environmental variability at specific points in organismal development. Essentially, adult phenotypic plasticity, as important as it is, will be irrelevant if developing offspring lack sufficient plasticity to create modified phenotypes necessary for survival.


Enzyme polymorphism, oxygen and injury: a lipidomic analysis of flight-induced oxidative damage in a succinate dehydrogenase d (Sdhd)-polymorphic insect
When active tissues receive insufficient oxygen to meet metabolic demand, succinate accumulates and has two fundamental effects: it causes ischemia–reperfusion injury while also activating the hypoxia-inducible factor pathway (HIF). The Glanville fritillary butterfly (Melitaea cinxia) possesses a balanced polymorphism in Sdhd, shown previously to affect HIF pathway activation and tracheal morphology and used here to experimentally test the hypothesis that variation in succinate dehydrogenase affects oxidative injury. We stimulated butterflies to fly continuously in a respirometer (3 min duration), which typically caused episodes of exhaustion and recovery, suggesting a potential for cellular injury from hypoxia and reoxygenation in flight muscles. Indeed, flight muscle from butterflies flown on consecutive days had lipidome profiles similar to those of rested paraquat-injected butterflies, but distinct from those of rested untreated butterflies. Many butterflies showed a decline in flight metabolic rate (FMR) on day 2, and there was a strong inverse relationship between the ratio of day 2 to day 1 FMR and the abundance of sodiated adducts of phosphatidylcholines and co-enzyme Q (CoQ). This result is consistent with elevation of sodiated lipids caused by disrupted intracellular ion homeostasis in mammalian tissues after hypoxia–reperfusion. Butterflies carrying the Sdhd M allele had a higher abundance of lipid markers of cellular damage, but the association was reversed in field-collected butterflies, where focal individuals typically flew for seconds at a time rather than continuously. These results indicate that Glanville fritillary flight muscles can be injured by episodes of high exertion, but injury severity appears to be determined by an interaction between SDH genotype and behavior (prolonged versus intermittent flight).


Benefits of hyperbaric oxygen pretreatment for decompression sickness in Bama pigs
Decompression sickness (DCS) occurs when ambient pressure is severely reduced during diving and aviation. Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) pretreatment has been shown to exert beneficial effects on DCS in rats via heat-shock proteins (HSPs). We hypothesized that HBO pretreatment will also reduce DCS via HSPs in swine models. In the first part of our investigation, six swine were subjected to a session of HBO treatment. HSP32, 60, 70 and 90 were detected, before and at 6, 12, 18, 24 and 30 h following exposure in lymphocytes. In the second part of our investigation, another 10 swine were randomly assigned into two groups (five per group). All swine were subjected to two simulated air dives in a hyperbaric chamber with an interval of 7 days. Eighteen hours before each dive, the swine were pretreated with HBO or air: the first group received air pretreatment prior to the first dive and HBO pretreatment prior to the second; the second group were pretreated with HBO first and then air. Bubble loads, skin lesions, inflammation and endothelial markers were detected after each dive. In lymphocytes, all HSPs increased significantly (P<0.05), with the greatest expression appearing at 18 h for HSP32 and 70. HBO pretreatment significantly reduced all the determined changes compared with air pretreatment. The results demonstrate that a single exposure to HBO 18 h prior to diving effectively protects against DCS in the swine model, possibly via induction of HSPs.


Resistance to DNA damage and enhanced DNA repair capacity in the hypoxia-tolerant blind mole rat Spalax carmeli
Blind mole rats of the genus Spalax are the only mammalian species to date for which spontaneous cancer has never been reported and resistance to carcinogen-induced cancers has been demonstrated. However, the underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood. The fact that Spalax spp. are also hypoxia-tolerant and long-lived species implies the presence of molecular adaptations to prevent genomic instability, which underlies both cancer and aging. We previously demonstrated the upregulation of transcripts related to DNA replication and repair pathways in Spalax. Yet, to date, no direct experimental evidence for improved genomic maintenance has been demonstrated for this genus. Here, we show that compared with skin fibroblasts of the above-ground rat, Spalax carmeli skin fibroblasts in culture resist several types of genotoxic insult, accumulate fewer genotoxic lesions and exhibit an enhanced DNA repair capacity. Our results strongly support that this species has evolved efficient mechanisms to maintain DNA integrity as an adaptation to the stressful conditions in the subterranean habitat.


Directionality of nose-emitted echolocation calls from bats without a nose leaf (Plecotus auritus)
All echolocating bats and whales measured to date emit a directional bio-sonar beam that affords them a number of advantages over an omni-directional beam, i.e. reduced clutter, increased source level and inherent directional information. In this study, we investigated the importance of directional sound emission for navigation through echolocation by measuring the sonar beam of brown long-eared bats, Plecotus auritus. Plecotus auritus emits sound through the nostrils but has no external appendages to readily facilitate a directional sound emission as found in most nose emitters. The study shows that P. auritus, despite lacking an external focusing apparatus, emits a directional echolocation beam (directivity index=13 dB) and that the beam is more directional vertically (−6 dB angle at 22 deg) than horizontally (−6 dB angle at 35 deg). Using a simple numerical model, we found that the recorded emission pattern is achievable if P. auritus emits sound through the nostrils as well as the mouth. The study thus supports the hypothesis that a directional echolocation beam is important for perception through echolocation and we propose that animals with similarly non-directional emitter characteristics may facilitate a directional sound emission by emitting sound through both the nostrils and the mouth.


Renoguanylin stimulates apical CFTR translocation and decreases HCO3− secretion through PKA activity in the Gulf toadfish (Opsanus beta)
The guanylin peptides – guanylin, uroguanylin and renoguanylin (RGN) – are endogenously produced hormones in teleost fish enterocytes that are activators of guanylyl cyclase-C (GC-C) and are potent modulators of intestinal physiology, particularly in seawater teleosts. Most notably, they reverse normal net ion-absorbing mechanisms that are vital to water absorption, an important process for seawater teleost survival. The role of guanylin-peptide stimulation of the intestine remains unclear, but it is hypothesized to facilitate the removal of solids from the intestine by providing fluid to enable their removal by peristalsis. The present study used one member of this group of peptides – RGN – to provide evidence for the prominent role that protein kinase A (PKA) plays in mediating the effects of guanylin-peptide stimulation in the posterior intestine of the Gulf toadfish (Opsanus beta). Protein kinase G was found to not mediate the intracellular effects of RGN, despite previous evidence showing that GC-C activation leads to higher cyclic guanosine monophosphate formation. RGN reversed the absorptive short-circuit current and increased conductance in the Gulf toadfish intestine. These effects are correlated to increased trafficking of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) Cl− channel to the apical membrane, which is negated by PKA inhibition. Moreover, RGN decreased HCO3− secretion, likely by limiting apical HCO3−/Cl− exchange (possibly by reducing SLC26a6 activity), a reduction that was enhanced by PKA inhibition. RGN seems to alter PKA activity in the posterior intestine to recruit CFTR to the apical membrane and reduce HCO3− secretion.


Cherchez la femme – impact of ocean acidification on the egg jelly coat and attractants for sperm
The impact of ocean acidification on marine invertebrate eggs and its consequences for sperm chemotaxis are unknown. In the sea urchins Heliocidaris tuberculata and Heliocidaris erythrogramma, with small (93 µm) and large (393 µm) eggs, respectively, we documented the effect of decreased pH on the egg jelly coat, an extracellular matrix that increases target size for sperm and contains sperm-attracting molecules. In near-future conditions (pH 7.8, 7.6), the jelly coat of H. tuberculata decreased by 11% and 21%, reducing egg target size by 9% and 17%, respectively. In contrast, the egg jelly coat of H. erythrogramma was not affected. The reduction in the jelly coat has implications for sperm chemotaxis in H. tuberculata. In the presence of decreased pH and egg chemicals, the sperm of this species increased their velocity, motility and linearity, behaviour that was opposite to that seen for sperm exposed to egg chemicals in ambient conditions. Egg chemistry appears to cause a reduction in sperm velocity where attractants guide the sperm in the direction of the egg. Investigation of the effects of decreased pH on sperm isolated from the influence of egg chemistry does not provide an integrative assessment of the effects of ocean acidification on sperm function. Differences in the sensitivity of the jelly coat of the two species is likely associated with egg evolution in H. erythrogramma. We highlight important unappreciated impacts of ocean acidification on marine gamete functionality, and insights into potential winners and losers in a changing ocean, pointing to the advantage conveyed by the evolution of large eggs.


Respiratory mechanics and morphology of Tibetan and Andean high-altitude geese with divergent life histories
High-altitude bar-headed geese (Anser indicus) and Andean geese (Chloephaga melanoptera) have been shown to preferentially increase tidal volume over breathing frequency when increasing ventilation during exposure to hypoxia. Increasing tidal volume is a more effective breathing strategy but is also thought to be more mechanically and metabolically expensive. We asked whether there might be differences in the mechanics or morphology of the respiratory systems of high-altitude transient bar-headed geese and high-altitude resident Andean geese that could minimize the cost of breathing more deeply. We compared these two species with a low-altitude migratory species, the barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis). We ventilated anesthetized birds to measure mechanical properties of the respiratory system and used CT scans to quantify respiratory morphology. We found that the respiratory system of Andean geese was disproportionately larger than that of the other two species, allowing use of a deeper breathing strategy for the same energetic cost. The relative size of the respiratory system, especially the caudal air sacs, of bar-headed geese was also larger than that of barnacle geese. However, when normalized to respiratory system size, the mechanical cost of breathing did not differ significantly among these three species, indicating that deeper breathing is enabled by morphological but not mechanical differences between species. The metabolic cost of breathing was estimated to be <1% of basal metabolic rate at rest in normoxia. Because of differences in the magnitude of the ventilatory response, the cost of breathing was estimated to increase 7- to 10-fold in bar-headed and barnacle geese in severe hypoxia, but less than 1-fold in Andean geese exposed to the same low atmospheric PO2.


Tuning orb spider glycoprotein glue performance to habitat humidity
Orb-weaving spiders use adhesive threads to delay the escape of insects from their webs until the spiders can locate and subdue the insects. These viscous threads are spun as paired flagelliform axial fibers coated by a cylinder of solution derived from the aggregate glands. As low molecular mass compounds (LMMCs) in the aggregate solution attract atmospheric moisture, the enlarging cylinder becomes unstable and divides into droplets. Within each droplet an adhesive glycoprotein core condenses. The plasticity and axial line extensibility of the glycoproteins are maintained by hygroscopic LMMCs. These compounds cause droplet volume to track changes in humidity and glycoprotein viscosity to vary approximately 1000-fold over the course of a day. Natural selection has tuned the performance of glycoprotein cores to the humidity of a species' foraging environment by altering the composition of its LMMCs. Thus, species from low-humidity habits have more hygroscopic threads than those from humid forests. However, at their respective foraging humidities, these species' glycoproteins have remarkably similar viscosities, ensuring optimal droplet adhesion by balancing glycoprotein adhesion and cohesion. Optimal viscosity is also essential for integrating the adhesion force of multiple droplets. As force is transferred to a thread's support line, extending droplets draw it into a parabolic configuration, implementing a suspension bridge mechanism that sums the adhesive force generated over the thread span. Thus, viscous capture threads extend an orb spider's phenotype as a highly integrated complex of large proteins and small molecules that function as a self-assembling, highly tuned, environmentally responsive, adhesive biomaterial. Understanding the synergistic role of chemistry and design in spider adhesives, particularly the ability to stick in wet conditions, provides insight in designing synthetic adhesives for biomedical applications.


Intricate but tight coupling of spiracular activity and abdominal ventilation during locust discontinuous gas exchange cycles
Discontinuous gas exchange (DGE) is the best studied among insect gas exchange patterns. DGE cycles comprise three phases, which are defined by their spiracular state: closed, flutter and open. However, spiracle status has rarely been monitored directly; rather, it is often assumed based on CO2 emission traces. In this study, we directly recorded electromyogram (EMG) signals from the closer muscle of the second thoracic spiracle and from abdominal ventilation muscles in a fully intact locust during DGE. Muscular activity was monitored simultaneously with CO2 emission, under normoxia and under various experimental oxic conditions. Our findings indicate that locust DGE does not correspond well with the commonly described three-phase cycle. We describe unique DGE-related ventilation motor patterns, coupled to spiracular activity. During the open phase, when CO2 emission rate is highest, the thoracic spiracles do not remain open; rather, they open and close rapidly. This fast spiracle activity coincides with in-phase abdominal ventilation, while alternating with the abdominal spiracle and thus facilitating a unidirectional air flow along the main trachea. A change in the frequency of rhythmic ventilation during the open phase suggests modulation by intra-tracheal CO2 levels. A second, slow ventilatory movement pattern probably serves to facilitate gas diffusion during spiracle closure. Two flutter-like patterns are described in association with the different types of ventilatory activity. We offer a modified mechanistic model for DGE in actively ventilating insects, incorporating ventilatory behavior and changes in spiracle state.


The caval sphincter in cetaceans and its predicted role in controlling venous flow during a dive
A sphincter on the inferior vena cava can protect the heart of a diving mammal from overload when elevated abdominal pressures increase venous return, yet sphincters are reported incompetent or absent in some cetacean species. We previously hypothesized that abdominal pressures are elevated and pulsatile in fluking cetaceans, and that collagen is deposited on the diaphragm according to pressure levels to resist deformation. Here, we tested the hypothesis that cetaceans generating high abdominal pressures need a more robust sphincter than those generating low pressures. We examined diaphragm morphology in seven cetacean and five pinniped species. All odontocetes had morphologically similar sphincters despite large differences in collagen content, and mysticetes had muscle that could modulate caval flow. These findings do not support the hypothesis that sphincter structure correlates with abdominal pressures. To understand why a sphincter is needed, we simulated the impact of oscillating abdominal pressures on caval flow. Under low abdominal pressures, simulated flow oscillated with each downstroke. Under elevated pressures, a vascular waterfall formed, greatly smoothing flow. We hypothesize that cetaceans maintain high abdominal pressures to moderate venous return and protect the heart while fluking, and use their sphincters only during low-fluking periods when abdominal pressures are low. We suggest that pinnipeds, which do not fluke, maintain low abdominal pressures. Simulations also showed that retrograde oscillations could be transmitted upstream from the cetacean abdomen and into the extradural veins, with potentially adverse repercussions for the cerebral circulation. We propose that locomotion-generated pressures have influenced multiple aspects of the cetacean vascular system.


The utility of transcriptomics in fish conservation
There is growing recognition of the need to understand the mechanisms underlying organismal resilience (i.e. tolerance, acclimatization) to environmental change to support the conservation management of sensitive and economically important species. Here, we discuss how functional genomics can be used in conservation biology to provide a cellular-level understanding of organismal responses to environmental conditions. In particular, the integration of transcriptomics with physiological and ecological research is increasingly playing an important role in identifying functional physiological thresholds predictive of compensatory responses and detrimental outcomes, transforming the way we can study issues in conservation biology. Notably, with technological advances in RNA sequencing, transcriptome-wide approaches can now be applied to species where no prior genomic sequence information is available to develop species-specific tools and investigate sublethal impacts that can contribute to population declines over generations and undermine prospects for long-term conservation success. Here, we examine the use of transcriptomics as a means of determining organismal responses to environmental stressors and use key study examples of conservation concern in fishes to highlight the added value of transcriptome-wide data to the identification of functional response pathways. Finally, we discuss the gaps between the core science and policy frameworks and how thresholds identified through transcriptomic evaluations provide evidence that can be more readily used by resource managers.


Embryonic growth rate affects telomere attrition: an experiment in a wild bird
High growth rate is associated with a short lifespan, but the physiological basis for this trade-off is not well known. Telomere length predicts individual lifespan and in this study we investigated whether embryonic growth rate, manipulated using incubation temperature, affects erythrocyte telomere length in a wild bird species, the common tern (Sterna hirundo). A 1oC lower incubation temperature decreased growth rate by 5%, without affecting size at hatching. The slower growth was associated with 147 base pairs longer telomere length at hatching. If carried through to adulthood, this effect would correspond with an approximately 3 year longer lifespan. Our results thus suggest that an effect of growth rate on lifespan may be mediated by telomere dynamics, or a physiological process reflected by telomere length.


Responses to mechanically and visually cued water waves in the nervous system of the medicinal leech
Sensitivity to water waves is a key modality by which aquatic predators can detect and localize their prey. For one such predator – the medicinal leech, Hirudo verbana – behavioral responses to visual and mechanical cues from water waves are well documented. Here, we quantitatively characterized the response patterns of a multisensory interneuron, the S cell, to mechanically and visually cued water waves. As a function of frequency, the response profile of the S cell replicated key features of the behavioral prey localization profile in both visual and mechanical modalities. In terms of overall firing rate, the S cell response was not direction selective, and although the direction of spike propagation within the S cell system did follow the direction of wave propagation under certain circumstances, it is unlikely that downstream neuronal targets can use this information. Accordingly, we propose a role for the S cell in the detection of waves but not in the localization of their source. We demonstrated that neither the head brain nor the tail brain are required for the S cell to respond to visually cued water waves.


Fitness consequences of plasticity in an extended phenotype
Like regular phenotypes, extended phenotypes have demonstrable fitness advantages and their properties may vary plastically across environments. However, the fitness advantages of plasticity are only known for a select few extended phenotypes. It is known that the form and functions of spider orb webs can be manipulated by laboratory experiments. For instance, the physical and chemical properties of the spiral and gluey silks vary in property as protein intake varies. Orb web spiders thus represent good models for extended phenotypic plasticity studies. We performed experiments manipulating the protein intake of two vertically aligned orb web building spiders to determine whether variations in the chemical and physical properties of their spiral and gluey silk affect prey retention in their webs. We found in both spider species that individuals deprived of protein had a greater gluey silk glycoprotein core volume, and this correlated strongly with spiral thread stickiness and increased prey retention by the webs. Moreover, we found strong positive correlations between glue droplet volume and glycoprotein core volume for spiders in the protein-deprived treatment, but weaker correlations for protein-fed spiders. We interpreted these findings as the spiders investing more in glycoprotein when nutrient deprived. We attribute the associated increase in prey retention capacity as a fitness consequence of plasticity in the spiral properties.


Flight-motor-driven respiratory airflow increases tracheal oxygen to nearly atmospheric level in blowflies (Calliphora vicina)
It is widely accepted that an efficient oxygen supply and removal of CO2 in small flying insects are sufficiently performed by diffusion with open spiracles. This paper shows that in the tethered flying blowfly, gas exchange occurs by autoventilation and unidirectional airflow. The air is inspired through the mesothoracic spiracles (Sp1) during the downstroke of the wings and is expired through the metathoracic spiracles (Sp2) during the upstroke. This directed airflow through the thoracic tracheal system was documented by pre-atrial pressure measurements at the Sp1 and Sp2, revealing a sub-atmospheric mean pressure at the Sp1 and an over-atmospheric mean pressure at the Sp2. In the mesothoracic air sacs, the mean pressure is sub-atmospheric, conditioned by the only slightly open spiracles. In a split flow-through chamber experiment, the CO2 released through the Sp2 confirmed this unidirectional respiratory gas flow, implicating an inner tracheal valve. In the thoracic tracheal system, the PO2 during flight exceeds the high resting PO2 by 1–2 kPa, reaching nearly atmospheric values. In the abdominal large air sacs, the PO2 drops during flight, probably due to the accumulation of CO2. Periodic heartbeat reversals continue during flight, with a higher period frequency than at rest, supporting the transport of CO2 via the haemolymph towards the metathoracic tracheae and abdominal air sacs.


