Phylogeny, environment and sexual communication across the Drosophila genus
Social behaviour emerges from the local environment but is constrained by the animal's life history and its evolutionary lineage. In this perspective, we consider the genus Drosophila and provide an overview of how these constraints can shape how individuals interact. Our focus is restricted to visual and chemical signals and how their use varies across species during courtship – currently the only social behaviour well-studied across many Drosophila species. We broadly categorize species into four climatic groups – cosmopolitan, tropical, temperate and arid – which serve as discussion points as we review comparative behavioural and physiological studies and relate them to the abiotic conditions of a species environment. We discuss how the physiological and behavioural differences among many fly species may reflect life history differences as much as, or even more than, differences in phylogeny. This perspective serves not only to summarize what has been studied across drosophilids, but also to identify questions and outline gaps in the literature worth pursuing for progressing the understanding of behavioural evolution in Drosophila.


Genetic conflicts: the usual suspects and beyond
Selfishness is pervasive and manifests at all scales of biology, from societies, to individuals, to genetic elements within a genome. The relentless struggle to seek evolutionary advantages drives perpetual cycles of adaptation and counter-adaptation, commonly referred to as Red Queen interactions. In this review, we explore insights gleaned from molecular and genetic studies of such genetic conflicts, both extrinsic (between genomes) and intrinsic (within genomes or cells). We argue that many different characteristics of selfish genetic elements can be distilled into two types of advantages: an over-replication advantage (e.g. mobile genetic elements in genomes) and a transmission distortion advantage (e.g. meiotic drivers in populations). These two general categories may help classify disparate types of selfish genetic elements.


The ecology and evolution of social behavior in microbes
Cooperation has been studied extensively across the tree of life, from eusociality in insects to social behavior in humans, but it is only recently that a social dimension has been recognized and extensively explored for microbes. Research into microbial cooperation has accelerated dramatically and microbes have become a favorite system because of their fast evolution, their convenience as lab study systems and the opportunity for molecular investigations. However, the study of microbes also poses significant challenges, such as a lack of knowledge and an inaccessibility of the ecological context (used here to include both the abiotic and the biotic environment) under which the trait deemed cooperative has evolved and is maintained. I review the experimental and theoretical evidence in support of the limitations of the study of social behavior in microbes in the absence of an ecological context. I discuss both the need and the opportunities for experimental investigations that can inform a theoretical framework able to reframe the general questions of social behavior in a clear ecological context and to account for eco-evolutionary feedback.


Correlations of metabolic rate and body acceleration in three species of coastal sharks under contrasting temperature regimes
The ability to produce estimates of the metabolic rate of free-ranging animals is fundamental to the study of their ecology. However, measuring the energy expenditure of animals in the field has proved difficult, especially for aquatic taxa. Accelerometry presents a means of translating metabolic rates measured in the laboratory to individuals studied in the field, pending appropriate laboratory calibrations. Such calibrations have only been performed on a few fish species to date, and only one where the effects of temperature were accounted for. Here, we present calibrations between activity, measured as overall dynamic body acceleration (ODBA), and metabolic rate, measured through respirometry, for nurse sharks (Ginglymostoma cirratum), lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris) and blacktip sharks (Carcharhinus limbatus). Calibrations were made at a range of volitional swimming speeds and experimental temperatures. Linear mixed models were used to determine a predictive equation for metabolic rate based on measured ODBA values, with the optimal model using ODBA in combination with activity state and temperature to predict metabolic rate in lemon and nurse sharks, and ODBA and temperature to predict metabolic rate in blacktip sharks. This study lays the groundwork for calculating the metabolic rate of these species in the wild using acceleration data.


Thermal spikes from the urban heat island increase mortality and alter physiology of lizard embryos
Effects of global change (i.e. urbanization, climate change) on adult organisms are readily used to predict the persistence of populations. However, effects on embryo survival and patterns of development are less studied, even though embryos are particularly sensitive to abiotic conditions that are altered by global change (e.g. temperature). In reptiles, relatively warm incubation temperatures increase developmental rate and often enhance fitness-relevant phenotypes, but extremely high temperatures cause death. Due to the urban heat island effect, human-altered habitats (i.e. cities) potentially create unusually warm nest conditions that differ from adjacent natural areas in both mean and extreme temperatures. Such variation may exert selection pressures on embryos. To address this, we measured soil temperatures in places where the Puerto Rican crested anole lizard (Anolis cristatellus) nests in both city and forest habitats. We bred anoles in the laboratory and subjected their eggs to five incubation treatments that mimicked temperature regimes from the field, three of which included brief exposure to extremely high temperatures (i.e. thermal spikes) measured in the city. We monitored growth and survival of hatchlings in the laboratory for 3 months and found that warmer, city temperatures increase developmental rate, but brief, thermal spikes reduce survival. Hatchling growth and survival were unaffected by incubation treatment. The urban landscape can potentially create selection pressures that influence organisms at early (e.g. embryo) and late life stages. Thus, research aimed at quantifying the impacts of urbanization on wildlife populations must include multiple life stages to gain a comprehensive understanding of this important aspect of global change.


Repeated freezing induces a trade-off between cryoprotection and egg production in the goldenrod gall fly, Eurosta solidaginis
Internal ice formation leads to wholesale changes in ionic, osmotic and pH homeostasis, energy metabolism, and mechanical damage, across a small range of temperatures, and is thus an abiotic stressor that acts at a distinct, physiologically-relevant, threshold. Insects that experience repeated freeze-thaw cycles over winter will cross this stressor threshold many times over their lifespan. Here we examine the effect of repeatedly crossing the freezing threshold on short-term physiological parameters (metabolic reserves and cryoprotectant concentration) as well as long-term fitness-related performance (survival and egg production) in the freeze-tolerant goldenrod gall fly Eurosta solidaginis. We exposed overwintering prepupae to a series of low temperatures (-10, -15, or -20 °C) with increasing numbers of freezing events (3, 6, or 10) with differing recovery periods between events (1, 5, or 10 days). Repeated freezing increased sorbitol concentration by about 50% relative to a single freezing episode, and prompted prepupae to modify long chain triacylglycerols to acetylated triacylglycerols. Long-term, repeated freezing did not significantly reduce survival, but did reduce egg production by 9.8% relative to a single freezing event. Exposure temperature did not affect any of these measures, suggesting that threshold crossing events may be more important to fitness than the intensity of stress in E. solidaginis overwintering.


Why do models of insect respiratory patterns fail?
Insects exchange respiratory gases using an astonishing diversity of patterns. Of these, discontinuous gas exchange cycles (DGCs) have received the most study, but there are many other patterns exhibited intraspecifically and interspecifically. Moreover, some individual insects transition between patterns based on poorly understood combinations of internal and external factors. Why have biologists failed, so far, to develop a framework capable of explaining this diversity? Here, we propose two answers. The first is that the framework will have to be simultaneously general and highly detailed. It should describe, in a universal way, the physical and chemical processes that any insect uses to exchange gases through the respiratory system (i.e. tracheal tubes and spiracles) while simultaneously containing enough morphological, physiological and neural detail that it captures the specifics of patterns exhibited by any species or individual. The second difficulty is that the framework will have to provide ultimate, evolutionary explanations for why patterns vary within and among insects as well as proximate physiological explanations for how different parts of the respiratory system are modified to produce that diversity. Although biologists have made significant progress on all of these problems individually, there has been little integration among approaches. We propose that renewed efforts be undertaken to integrate across levels and approaches with the goal of developing a new class of general, flexible models capable of explaining a greater fraction of the observed diversity of respiratory patterns.


Potential trade-offs between biomineralization and immunity revealed by shell properties and gene expression profiles of two closely related Crassostrea species
Species of Ostreidae family are key ecosystem engineers and many of them (including Crassostrea gigas and C. virginica) are commercially important aquaculture species. Despite similarities in their morphology and ecology, these two species differ in their ability to defend against pathogens potentially reflecting species-specific differential specialization of hemocytes on immune defense vs. biomineralization. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the expression levels of immune and biomineralization-related genes as well as mineralogical and mechanical properties of the shells and the calcium sequestration ability of the hemocytes of C. gigas and C. virginica. The expression of biomineralization related genes was higher in C. virginica than in C. gigas in multiple tissues including mantle edge and hemocytes, while the expression of immune genes was higher in the hemocytes of C. gigas. Hemocytes of C. virginica contained more calcium (stored intracellularly as calcium carbonate mineral) compared with those of C. gigas. Analysis of the adult shells showed that the crystallinity of calcite was higher and the laths of the foliated layer of the shell were thicker in C. virginica than in C. gigas. Mechanically the shells of C. virginica were stiffer, harder and stronger than those of C. gigas. Taken together, our results show that the species-specific differences in physiology (such as disease resistance and exoskeleton properties) are reflected at the cellular and molecular levels in differential specialization of hemocytes on potentially competing functions (immunity and biomineralization) as well as different expression profiles of other tissues involved in biomineralization (such as the mantle edge).


Developmental phenotypic plasticity helps bridge stochastic weather events associated with climate change
The slow, inexorable rise in annual average global temperatures and acidification of the oceans are often advanced as consequences of global change. However, many environmental changes, especially those involving weather (as opposed to climate), are often stochastic, variable and extreme, particularly in temperate terrestrial or freshwater habitats. Moreover, few studies of animal and plant phenotypic plasticity employ realistic (i.e. short-term, stochastic) environmental change in their protocols. Here, I posit that the frequently abrupt environmental changes (days, weeks, months) accompanying much longer-term general climate change (e.g. global warming over decades or centuries) require consideration of the true nature of environmental change (as opposed to statistical means) coupled with an expansion of focus to consider developmental phenotypic plasticity. Such plasticity can be in multiple forms – obligatory/facultative, beneficial/deleterious – depending upon the degree and rate of environmental variability at specific points in organismal development. Essentially, adult phenotypic plasticity, as important as it is, will be irrelevant if developing offspring lack sufficient plasticity to create modified phenotypes necessary for survival.


Eco-immunology in the cold: the role of immunity in shaping the overwintering survival of ectotherms
The effect of temperature on physiology mediates many of the challenges that ectotherms face under climate change. Ectotherm immunity is thermally sensitive and, as such, environmental change is likely to have complex effects on survival, disease resistance and transmission. The effects of temperature on immunity will be particularly profound in winter because cold and overwintering are important triggers and regulators of ectotherm immune activity. Low temperatures can both suppress and activate immune responses independent of parasites, which suggests that temperature not only affects the rate of immune responses but also provides information that allows overwintering ectotherms to balance investment in immunity and other physiological processes that underlie winter survival. Changing winter temperatures are now shifting ectotherm immunity, as well as the demand for energy conservation and protection against parasites. Whether an ectotherm can survive the winter will thus depend on whether new immune phenotypes will shift to match the conditions of the new environment, or leave ectotherms vulnerable to infection or energy depletion. Here, we synthesise patterns of overwintering immunity in ectotherms and examine how new winter conditions might affect ectotherm immunity. We then explore whether it is possible to predict the effects of changing winter conditions on ectotherm vulnerability to the direct and indirect effects of parasites.


Can physiological engineering/programming increase multi-generational thermal tolerance to extreme temperature events?
Organisms increasingly encounter higher frequencies of extreme weather events as a consequence of global climate change. Currently, few strategies are available to mitigate climate change effects on animals arising from acute extreme high-temperature events. We tested the capacity of physiological engineering to influence the intra- and multi-generational upper thermal tolerance capacity of a model organism, Artemia, subjected to extreme high temperatures. Enhancement of specific physiological regulators during development could affect thermal tolerance or life-history attributes affecting subsequent fitness. Using experimental Artemia populations, we exposed F0 individuals to one of four treatments: heat hardening (28°C to 36°C, 1°C per 10 min), heat hardening plus serotonin (0.056 μg ml−1), heat hardening plus methionine (0.79 mg ml−1) and a control treatment. Regulator concentrations were based on previous literature. Serotonin may promote thermal tolerance, acting upon metabolism and life history. Methionine acts as a methylation agent across generations. For all groups, measurements were collected for three performance traits of individual thermal tolerance (upper sublethal thermal limit, lethal limit and dysregulation range) over two generations. The results showed that no treatment increased the upper thermal limit during acute thermal stress, although serotonin-treated and methionine-treated individuals outperformed controls across multiple thermal performance traits. Additionally, some effects were evident across generations. Together, these results suggest that phenotypic engineering provides complex outcomes, and if implemented with heat hardening can further influence performance in multiple thermal tolerance traits, within and across generations. Potentially, such techniques could be up-scaled to provide resilience and stability in populations susceptible to extreme temperature events.
